0 Budget Speech of Fiscal Year 2016/17 Government of Nepal Ministry of Finance 28 May 2016 i UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION Budget Speech of Fiscal Year 2016/17 Delivered to Legislature-Parliament by Honorable Finance Minister Mr. Bishnu Prasad Paudel Saturday 28 May 2016 Government of Nepal Ministry of Finance 2016 www.mof.gov.np 1 Right Honorable Speaker, 1. I feel privileged to present the first budget, after the promulgation of the Constitution of the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal, before this august Legislature-Parliament. On the historical occasion of the Republic Day today on 28th May 2016, I pay homage to respect ed martyrs who sacrificed their lives for the cause of democratic republic, federalism, secularism, inclusion and social justice. I respectfully remember the towering personalities of Push palal Shrestha, Bisheshwor Prasad Koirala, Madan Bhandari, Manmohan Adhikari and Ganeshman Singh. I express my heartfelt honor to all Nepali sisters and brothers who contributed to the movement s for achieving justice, equality, independence and prosperity. 2. We have entered into a new era after the promulgation of the constitution. We have been successful in institutionalizing political rights through the constitution. The constitution has made all Nepalese sovereign. All types of discriminations and inequalities have bee n ended and equal rights, equal opportunities and equal respects have been accorded to all. As envis aged by the constitution, we have now entered into the phase of economic prosperity to reach the goal of social justice and socialism. In order to achieve prosperity with social justice, our fight should now be focused against underdevelopment, poverty and backwardness. 3. An epoch-making change was possible through collaboration and unity among the political parties. We have the experience of the victory of the people when the par ties were united and the state reached to the critical stage when they were divided. Our own experience has demonstrated that the indifferences and dissatisfaction created time to time in the politics can be converted into an understanding through meaningful dialogue. The political parties that w ere united during the formulation of the constitution should also be united for the implementation of the constitution. Now, we cannot escape from any pretext to delay in promoting socio -economic development, public service delivery, corruption control and good governance. Constitution impl ementation and the economic prosperity is our common agenda. Socialism with prosper ity is our common destination. I have taken these values as the guidelines to formulate this budget. 4. While formulating this budget, I have prepared the economic policy, program and projects keeping in view of the future roadmap of an independent, uprising, prosperous, an d equitable Nepal. The upcoming budget will emphasize on establishing the basis for constitution implementation and attaining high equitable economic growth through restructured economy m aximizing the available resources. Similarly, the budget will concentrate on equitable dis tribution of the resources and opportunities in such a way that all Nepali people attain the fruits of development, create infrastructure for sustainable development, support provincial balance and development, and support to implement development projects that are being felt and owned by the general people. 5. While proposing the programs in the budget, I have high regards to Nepali sisters and brothers residing within the country and abroad towards their concern, queries and willingness in the development process of Nepal. I have been encouraged by the commitment of increased goodwill 2 and cooperation shown towards Nepal by the neighboring friendly countries, international communities and development partners. 6. While formulating this budget, I have been guided by the fundamental rights of the citizens and the directive principles of the constitution of Nepal, Government’s poli cy and programs for FY 201617, and valuable suggestions received from Honorable Members of the Parliament on my presentation of the principles and priorities of Appropriati on Bill, 2016 before the LegislatureParliament. I have acknowledged with importance, the suggestions rece ived from parliamentarian committees, constitutional bodies, former Finance Ministers, economi sts, private sector umbrella organizations and personalities, institutions and agencies associated with social lives, creative youths and civil society. The long term vision and objective of the upcoming 14 th Development Plan which was recently approved by the National Development Council, and the Three Year Policy and Programs have been regarded as the foundation for the formulation of this budget. Economic Indicators 7. I have already presented before this august House, the Economic Survey, annual progress details of the Line Ministries for the current Fiscal Year and the progress review of the Public Enterprises for the last Fiscal Year. (a) These reports have not demonstrated the economic indicators as sat isfactory. Nepali economy experienced non-economic obstacles at the time of poor economic growth due to low investment, weak productive sector and structural weaknesses. The economy further shrunk due to earthquake damage and disruption in the supply system. (b) There is a preliminary estimates of only 0.8 percent economic gr owth in the current Fiscal Year due to delay in budget implementation, economic sluggishness seen in p rivate sector related to industry, construction and trade and decline in food production because of the unfavorable weather. Consumer price inflation has remained at about 10 percent. (c) There was an estimated loss of Rs. 700 billion caused by the earthquake. Additional loss has been incurred due to disruptions in the supply system. There is a need of the mobilization of resources equivalent to Rs. 813 billion for the post-earthquake reconstruction. (d) The revised expenditure for the current Fiscal Year is estima ted to be as Rs. 701 billion (85.6 percent) against the allocation of Rs. 819 billion. Of this expendi ture, recurrent expenditure is estimated to be Rs. 434 billion (89.6 percent), capital expenditure Rs. 159 billion (76.2 percent) and financing Rs. 108 billion (85.5 percent). (e) On the resource mobilization front, the revised revenue collection f or the current Fiscal Year is estimated to be Rs. 460 billion (96.8 percent) against the target of Rs. 475 billion. Of the target of mobilizing Rs. 205 billion from the foreign aid sources, only Rs. 126 bi llion (61 percent) is estimated to be mobilized. (f) Both the import and export of commodities in the current Fiscal Year have declined. Although the trade deficit seems to be lower than the previous year, export can only meet one tenth of the import 3 value. External sector is positive except the trade deficit. B alance of Payment is surplus by Rs. 163.81 billion at the end of the first nine months of the current Fisca l Year. Similarly, Foreign Exchange Reserve of Rs. 1007.61 billion is registered in this period. Remittance inflow in the first nine months of the Fiscal Year increased by 13 percent over the s ame period of previous Fiscal Year to reach Rs. 481.69 billion. (g) There has been an improvement in the investment climate. Internal capital market has strengthened gradually. Stock market has been dynamic due to excess liquidity in the capital market. However, challenges remain in the mobilization of financial resources t owards productive sector. NEPSE index has been above 1500. Objectives 8. Following are the objectives of this budget:• to implement the Constitution, • to revive the economy affected by the earthquake and the supply system disruption, • to attain high economic growth through increasing productivity and production, • to promote domestic and external investment, • to expand economic activities, increase income and employment and reduce poverty, • to create opportunities, capacity building and social protection, • to provide quality social service to all Nepali people. Priority Areas 9. While allocating budgetary resources, I have given priorities to the following areas:• Post-earthquake reconstruction, rehabilitation and new construction • Hydro power generation, transmission line expansion and distribution • Road, airport, irrigation • Agriculture, industry, tourism, forest • Urban and local infrastructure • Education, health, drinking water, sanitation • Social security • Service delivery, corruption control and governance reform Right Honorable Speaker, 10. Now, I present the program and budget for the Fiscal Year 2016-17:Constitution Implementation and the Peace Process 4 11. Necessary laws will be formulated for the implementation of the fundamental rights of the people as provisioned in the Constitution. 12. For the implementation of federalism, 138 Bills will be tab led in the Legislature Parliament next year. The laws of the federal, provincial and local level will be formulated. I have allocated necessary budget for the institutional and physical infrastructure of federalism. 13. The Government is committed to the implementation of federalism . The rights of the federal, provincial and local level will be applied as per law. Revenue sharing and fiscal transfer will be made according to law after the operationalization and manageme nt of the provinces. Until the local bodies are in place as per the Constitution, the existing functions of the local level will be carried out by the existing local bodies. The federal and loca l administrative restructuring will take place. Administrative structure will be developed at province level. 14. Government has given priority to the progressive implementat ion of the directive principles and policies of the state. 15. Commissions will be formed as per the Constitution. I have alloca ted budget for remunerations, facilities and functions required for the authorities of the constitut ional bodies and the head of the provinces. 16. Necessary preparatory works will be carried out to complete the elections of all levels according to the Constitution. The election of the local bodies will be held in N ovember this year. For this, initiation will be taken to ensure political consensus. 17. Arrangements will be made for awarding "Constitution Making Medal 2016" and conferring with "letter of honor" to the members of the Constituent Assembly for their contribution in formulating the Constitution of Nepal. 18. In order to complete the remaining tasks of peace process, a time bound action plan with, responsible agency and required resources will be prepared and implemented. 19. I have allocated necessary budget to provide the balance amount out of Rs.0.5 million which was previously declared for the martyrs and the family members of the disappeared people. I have provisioned budget of Rs.0.2 million for the disqualified and voluntarily ret ired combatants, who are yet to get the relief. 20. I have allocated necessary budget for education to the conflict aff ected people to be implemented though Martyr's Academy. Free medical treatment to the wounded people during conflict period will be arranged in the public hospitals. 21. A high level recommendation committee will be formed through political consensus in order to determine the criteria for martyrs and to recommend names for identifying the remaining martyrs. An arrangement will be made for the declaration of martyrs on t he recommendation of such committee. 5 22. Necessary resources will be provided for the Truth and Reconciliation Commission and Commission for the Investigation of the Disappeared formed for transitional jus tice to carry out the functions effectively. I have made an arrangement to provide an identity ca rd to the families of the martyrs and disappeared people. 23. I have given continuity to program for reconstruction of the physic al infrastructures damaged by conflict and the sustainable peace and development. I have arran ged budget to implement Ganeshman Peace Campaign program. Post-earthquake Reconstruction 24. Post-earthquake reconstruction work will be accelerated as per p eople's aspiration. I would like to assure that the reconstruction and rehabilitation works will be completed within the given timeline. I have made arrangements to ensure sufficient fund and resources. 25. Arrangements have been made for availing housing grants easily on the installment basis to all the earthquake affected households as identified by the beneficiary sur vey. I have made arrangement for providing additional Rs.0.3 million interest free loans for the c onstruction of houses to the earthquake victims on collective bailment. 26. Reconstruction will be integrated with new construction. The public structures to be constructed will be made earthquake resistant. The structures to be constructed by the private sector will also be encouraged for earthquake resistant construction. 27. Reconstruction and rehabilitation works of the structures related to health and education will be completed within three years and all infrastructures will be completed within five years. 28. An arrangement will be made for integrated service delivery in the settlements under reconstruction. In such settlements, there will be an integrated developme nt of all infrastructures including road, drinking water, electricity, sanitation, schools and health centers. 29. I would like to appeal all brothers and sisters from inside and outside the country to participate in "I Build My Dharahara on my Own " campaign and contribute to the reconstruction of the archaeological and cultural heritage sites, like Dharahara. 30. A special progam will be implemented for the rehabilitat ion of the flood and landslide victims of Dang, Banke, Bardiya, Surkhet, Dailekh, Doti, Darchula, Sindhupalchowk and Taplejung districts. 31. I have allocated Rs. 140.66 billion for the post-earthquake reconstruction and rehabilitation. Hydropower for Economic Prosperity 32. Projects on hydropower generation, transmission and distribution w ill be implemented with a clear roadmap for reducing load shedding substantially within next year, ending load shedding completely within two years, becoming self-reliant in electricity wit hin three years during monsoon and exporting hydropower within ten years. 33. I have allocated budget for the implementation of "Energy Cri sis Prevention and Electricity Development Decade Action Plan 2016" with priority. Bills for Electricity Regulatory Commission 6 and Bill for Energy Crisis Prevention and Amendment Bill for Electricity Act and Bill for Electricity Leakage Control Act will be tabled to the Legislature Parliament in the next Fiscal Year. 34. A strategy will be adopted to ascertain the capacity of N epal's potential hydropower by conducting general survey, commending hydropower generation by fixing ti me frame and constructing the transmission lines through focusing on hydropower generation. 35. Chameliya and Kulekhani Third Projects, Upper Tamakoshi and Upper Tr ishuli 3A Projects and Rasuwagadhi Project will be connected to the national grid by c ompleting them within one year, two years and three years, respectively. 36. A total of 10,000 MW Hydropower will be generated within the nex t ten years through generating 6,000 MW from run of the river projects and 4,000 MW from the reservoir hydro projects. 37. Electricity for all Households, Share for All People (Ghar Gh ar Ma Bijuli Jan Janma Share) program will be implemented in order to construct the hydropower projects with comparatively attractive return on the investment of the people and government. An arrangement will be made for maintaining minimum 51 percent shareholding of the government and maxi mum 49 percent of shareholding of the interested Nepali citizens and Non Resident Nepali (NRN) for such projects. In order to construct the hydro projects like, Tamor, Sunkoshi, Dudhkoshi, Those , Khimti Shiwalaya, Naumure, Sharada-Babai, Nalsing Gad, Uttarganga, under this model, D PR will be prepared and resources will be made available. A separate hydroelectric company will be established for the construction and operation of these projects. 38. The construction work of Budhi Gandaki Reservoir Hydroelectric Project with the capacity of 1200 MW will be commenced from next Fiscal Year. Separate Office empowered with full authority will be established for carrying out the administrative works includin g distribution of compensation. Resettlement Action Plan will be prepared within six months for the affected people. I have allocated Rs. 5.33 billion for this purpose. 39. For Clean Energy Development, I have proposed to levy Infrastructure Tax at the rate of Rs. 5 per Liter at the custom point in the import of Petrol, Diesel and a viation fuel by Nepal Oil Corporation without creating additional burden to the consumers. I have made an arrangement to spend this fund for the construction of Budhi Gandaki Hydropower Project. By this arrangement, additional resource of Rs. 7 billion will be mobilized for Budhi Gandaki Project next year. 40. Construction work of Tanahu Seti Reservoir Project will be acce lerated. West Seti Hydroelectric Project will be carried forward with a pr iority. International companies will be encouraged to construct hydroelectric projects like Tamakoshi I II, Lower Arun Hydro Project on EPCF model. 41. All works to be carried out by Nepalese side for Pancheshwor Multipurpose Project, as a friendship project between Nepal and India, will be implemented on a priority basis. 7 42. The implementation of the hydroelectric projects, including Up per Karnali, Arun Third and Upper Marsyangdi to be constructed with the investment of the Indian compa nies will be facilitated. Necessary support will be extended for the study of Kimathanka-Arun with Chinese assistance. 43. Initiation will be taken to develop Karnali Chisapani Multipurpose Project with the capacity of more than 10,000 MW as a tripartite friendship project of the friendly nations India, China and Nepal. 44. I have given special attention for strengthening the electricity transmission and distribution system. In order to transmit the generated electricity throughout Nepal and export it, the Transmission High Ways based on hi-tech technology with appropriate transmission capacity will be constructed. 45. Budget has been allocated to construct the distribution line in both DhalkebarKathmandu –Hetauda 400 KV and HetaudaDhalkebarInaruwa 400KV. The upgrading of Dhalkebar sub-station will be completed by Mid-December this year. 46. The construction work of Mechi-Mahaakali distribution line and Karna lli, Gandaki and Koshi corridor distribution line will be prioritized. The construction work of Marshyangdi-Kathmandu, Samudratar-Trisuli, and Kathmandu-Biragunj-Simara corridor distrib ution line will be completed within the stipulated time framework. 47. The construction work of transmission line DubahiJogbani-Purnia and Bardhaghatanew ButawalGorakhpur and Nepalgunj-Lucknow and AttariaBareli, cross-country transmission line will be initiated with priority. Budget has been allocated to complete the 132 KV transmission lines of Parbanipur-Raksaul and KushahaKataiya under construction within next year. 48. The feasibility study of ChilimeKerung distribution line wi ll be completed within next year in a way to develop an alternate provision of exportimport of hydropower. 49. Distribution mechanism will be made effective and efficient b y means of smart grid and metering, conceal caballing, monopole and junction through GIS technology based substation setup. 50. Energy audit system will be introduced in order to improve the ener gy efficiency among the large hydro clients. Technical audit will be conducted in respect of completed hydropower projects. 51. National Transmission Grid Company will start its works from the beginning of the next year. National Hydropower Generation Company and National Hydropower Tr ading Company will be constituted. Separate mechanism consisting of experts will be set up to provide consultancy services in the matter of design, develop and supervision of hydropower proj ects and its transmission line and distribution system. 52. I have allocated additional budget to rural community electrific ation program in order to ensure access of all to the electricity through increased participation in the hydropower distribution system. 53. Use of LED bulbs with international quality marks will be encour aged instead of high power consuming traditional bulbs and CFL. Extended Road Connectivity: the Base of Overall Development 8 54. East-West highway and North-South corridor will be developed and tr ansferred into modern and safe means of transportation. Road connectivity program will be i mplemented in all the provinces and district headquarters with a view to integrate economic, comm ercial and touristic center through modern, safe and standard road connectivity. 55. Construction of long-awaited KathmanduNijagadh fast track, which is likely to contribute to economic, social and cultural transformation of Nepal, will be ini tiated from next year. I have arranged the construction of BudhuneHetauda fast track as a part of it. I have allocated Rs. 10 billion for this purpose. Specialized Project Office with technical expertise will be set up in order to facilitate the project implementation. Dedicated mechanism w ill be set up to monitor and facilitate the project. I have ensured the fund availability to complete the project. 56. With realization that the people of Teral-Madhesh have been fac ing difficulties due to long and persistent time overrun of the Hulaki Road project, resulting in de privation of basic transportation facility, I have made needful arrangement to speed up the construction of this project, which is likely to contribute to overall development of the TeraiMadesh, mobiliz ing grant assistance of the Government of India and the Government of Nepal’s domestic resources. I have allocated Rs. 4.2 billion for this project. 57. Total of 518 km of the 1 st phase of Hulaki Road will be upgraded as Dedicated double lane within period of 3 years. Detailed Project Report of the 1152 km of the 2 nd phase will be prepared and implemented in next Fiscal Year. 58. Multi-year tender of Pushpalal (Mid-hill) highway will be awarded so as to complete this project within coming 5 years. This highway will be developed as the dedic ated express highway with tunnels. For this, I have allocated Rs 2.88 billion. 59. Detailed Project Report of the Madan Bhandari highway (Basant apur-Gupha Pokhari-Sabha PokhariDhunge Sanghu-Dobhan) will be prepared and construction work will be started from next year. 60. Construction of 318 km long Dharan-Chatara-Gaighat-Katari-Sindhulibajar -Hetaiuda Road, which is also known as to be catalytic to enhance access to inner Terai and Chure area of Eastern and MidEastern region and to open up avenues for economic development of t he region, will be completed within period of three years equipping with modern infrastructure. I have allocated Rs 3.2 billion for this. 61. Ghalchhi-Trisuli-MailungSyaprubesi-Rasuagadi road will be completed within 2 years. Detailed Project Report for the segment of Galchhi-Malekhu-Lothar-Bha ndara-Thori will be prepared and construction will begin from next year. 62. I have allocated the budget to open up the Khadbari-Kimathanka track under Koshi corridor to upgrade DhankutaKimathaka road into dedicated double lane. 9 63. The initial work for Jomsom-Korala road segment under the Kali Gandaki corridor will be completed within 2 years. RidiBaglung-Beni-Jomsonm-Korala under Kali Ganda ki corridor will be built as dedicated double lane standard. 64. I have allocated budget to build the road connecting Simikot, distr ict headquarter of Humla, to northern point Hilsa. I have allocated necessary budget to Khulalulaifu KalikotSimikot road to be built by Nepal Army. Headquarter of Dolpa in a year and of H umla in 2 years will be connected to the road network. 65. Construction of 4 lane modern roads in all districts of Terai-Madhes connecting East West highway to district headquarters leading to the southern border point will be started from next year. I believe that this will help develop Terai-Madhes as economic center. I have allocated Rs 2 billion for this purpose. 66. Construction work of Manang-Mustang-Dolpa-Jumla Road, which is criti cal for socioeconomic development of Northwestern mountainous regions, will be initiated af ter preparation of Detailed Project Report 67. Construction work of Greater Lumbini Ring Road (Lumbini-BhairahawaTriveni-DumkibasGaidakot-Ramdi-Ridi-Tamghas-Sandhikharka-Gorusinghe-Taulihawa-Lumbini) will be started from next year after preparation of its Detailed Project Report. 68. Construction work of Golden Mount Everest Ring Road (Okhadhunga-Solu Salleri-Khotang DiktelOkhaldhunga) will be started after preparation of its Detailed Project Report. SaghutarOkhaldhunga-Kuibhir road will be upgraded and blacktopped. 69. Preparatory works of Kathmandu outer ring road will be started. 70. East-West Highway (Kakadbhitta-Butawal-Gaddachouki), Prithivi Highway (Kathmandu-Pokhara), Araniko Highway (Suryabinayak-Dhulikhel-Tatopani), and Bhairahawa -Lumbini -TaulihawaBahadurgunj road will be upgraded to 4 lane roads. 71. Butawal-Tansen-Pokhara, Kohalpur-Surkhet, Pokhara-kushma-Beni, Mahakali corridor (Bramhadev-Jhulaghat-Darchula-Tinkar) Bheri corridor (Jagarkot-Dunai-Marim-Tinje Dho) Mechi corridor, Seti highway and Damak ring road will be constructed and u pgraded to dedicated double lane. Two lane highways will be constructed along the West bank of Trishuli River in NarayangadhTrishuli section. 72. I have given continuity to Electoral Constituency Roads under the multiyear tender. I have allocated needful budget for expeditious completion of the project. 73. The construction work of Nagdhunga tunnel road in Prithivi highways will be initiated from the next year. I have allocated Rs. 1.86 billion for this project. I have allocated budget for Detailed Project Report to build the tunnel road in Chahare segment of Kathmandu-Rasuwa Gadhi to reduce the time consumption of transportation and in Siddha baba section of Siddhartha hi ghways to ensure safe journey. Tunnel road construction will be initiated as soon as field study and Detailed Project Report will be completed. 10 74. The government will facilitate the construction of KathmanduHeta uda tunnel road prioritized by the private sector. 75. The strategic roads and bridges will be built as two lanes at minimum. Priority will be given to make these structures fine-looking and environment friendly. 76. All roads will be classified into 3 categoriesfederal, pr ovincial and local. Right of way will be determined and road encroachment will be controlled. Railways and Ships 77. Construction work of East West electrical railways will be initiated after the preparation of Detailed Project Report. Feasibility study of Kathmandu Birgunj railways will be conducted. 78. Detailed Project Report for Rasuwagadhi-Kathmandu-Pokhara-Lumbi ni will be prepared and construction will be initiated in 2 years. 79. Construction of track bed in BaradibasSimara railways will be completed in coming Fiscal Year and the work of paving track will be started. 80. Detailed Project Report of the Kathmandu Valley Metro Railway will be prepared and resource will be managed for its construction. 81. Legal and institutional preparation for operating our own Ships in the High-Sea will be done as per our past experiences and the rights of the landlocked countries. Transport Management 82. The provision will be introduced for using the High Security Embos sed Number Plate in all the vehicles from coming Fiscal Year. 83. All driving license and vehicles ownership certificates (blue book) will be transformed into Smart Card within upcoming five years. 84. Vehicle Fitness Testing Centers will be established in ev ery Province in order to test the fitness of the vehicles for plying on the roads. I have expected that loss of life and property will be significantly minimized by this provision resulting in the reduced rate of vehicle accidents. 85. Digital Meter System will be made mandatory for the taxis operated in the Kathmandu Valley. 86. Arrangements will be made for fixing number plates with diff erent colors for the identification of the vehicles imported under custom exemption. If the vehicles are found to have been used for the purpose other than the purpose granted to them through customs exemption, such vehicles will be seized. 87. National Infrastructure Policy Research Academy will be established to study, research and recommend on the infrastructure policy. An Engineering Staff College will be established to update and enhance the technical capacity related to infrastructure building. Urban Development 11 88. In order to transform the district headquarters of the Terai-Ma desh into modern cities by developing them as economic and business centers, Intensive Urban Development Program will be implemented by selecting the projects related to road, sewage, drinking water, renewable energy, bus park, fun park, education and health in Mahendranagar, Dhangadhi, Guler ia, Nepalgunj, Taulihawa, Siddharthanagar, Parasi, Birgunj, Kalaiya, Gaur, Malangawa, Jaleshwor, Janakpurdham, Siraha, Rajbiraj, Inaruwa and Biratnagar. I have earmarked altogether Rs. 9 billion to provide Rs.500 million to each district headquarters to implement this program. A program implementation unit with technical and administrative manpower will be formed in all district headquarters. Ministry of Urban Development will make arrangements for regular monitor ing of the program. This program will gradually be expanded to inner–Madesh and the headquarters of the districts of the hilly and mountainous regions. 89. Under the Housing for People Program , I have allocated Rs.1.72 billion for the construction of houses of additional 20,000 families of the Dalits, Deprived, Muslim, C hepang, Raute, Gandharba, Badi, Bankaria, Surel, Thami including the poor and endangered communities. 90. I have allocated budget for the construction of physical infrastr ucture in the modern cities as stipulated 10 places of the Pushpa Lal (Mid-Hills) Highway. I have arranged the budget of Rs. 1.04 billion for the identification of places, preparation of Detaile d Project Report and infrastructure construction for the development of modern cities in 10 new places of the Postal Highway. Detailed study will be carried out for the construction of modern cities in Surkhet and Pyuthan. 91. Land use planning will be prepared for land development in order to construct satellite city with the area of 100,000Ropani in Kathmandu Valley within five years. Likewise, detailed plan will be prepared for two additional satellite cities in Kathmandu Valley. 92. Keeping Palungtar of Gorkha at a center, smart city master plan will be developed and implemented in the surrounding areas of Marsyangdi. In order to develop Wallin g, Lumbini and Dandeldhura including 10 cities as modern and prosperous smart cities, infras tructure construction work will be initiated through preparing the master plan. 93. In order to develop three metropolitan cities by covering the surrounding areas of Biratnagar to Itahari and adjacent areas, Siddhartha Nagar to Butwal and adjacent areas and Pokhara to Lekhnath and adjacent areas, detailed study and master plan will be developed and implemented. Integrated urban development planning will be formulated by covering 70 new municipalities. For this, I have allocated Rs. 210 million. 94. According to the concept of O ne City One Identity , implementation will be carried out by developing a master plan for Illam, Janakpur, Liwang, Tansen, Dha ngadhi, Triyuga, Gorkha, Jajarkot, Rukumkot, Thaha Municipality, Siraha, Chandannath, Damak, Bardiba s and Bharatpur including 15 cities. Bhaktapur will be developed as a cultural city. 95. The Building Code will be amended. Intensive monitoring will be car ried out whether the building has been built according to the building code or not. From now on, arrange ment will be made for 12 stopping the facilities of drinking water, sewerage, electricity, telephone services for those buildings that are not constructed according to the building code. 96. In the coming Fiscal Year, construction work of the President's Of fice, Vice-President's Office and residence, Singhadurbar, Building of the Supreme Court, Building of the Legislature-Parliament, Residence of Parliamentarians, Residence of Ministers and the Army Headquarter, will be initiated. 97. A multi-storied administrative plaza will be constructed in Ba bar Mahal, Kathmandu to deliver the services of all central departments from one place. 98. The ongoing construction works of International Conference Hall and International Exhibition Hall in Butwal will be completed within the next two years. Within the coming Fiscal Year, construction of a conference hall with the capacity of 5000 people will be initiated in Lumbini. The master plan of conference hall will be prepared and construction works will be carried out in Damak, Damauli, Tulsipur, Dhangadhi and Baitadi. 99. Organized Settlements will be developed by integrating the vulne rable dwellers, who are scattered in Himal, Hills and Terai due to the natural calamities like f loods, landslide and so on. I have allocated Rs. 710 million for the Settlement Development Program for the five Village Development Committees of Bajura District, which are most backward in the context of Human Development Index. 100. Bagmati Museum will be set up in Kathmandu. Modernization of Agriculture for Productivity Improvement 101. I have arranged to initiate the Prime Minister Agricultural Modernization Project in order to increase agricultural production and productivity growth with clear vi sion from the coming Fiscal Year. For this, Rs. 5.78 billion has been allocated to meet the ob jective and implementation of this project with the expectation of attaining self-sufficiency in agricultural production. With the implementation of this project, I believe that we would be se lf-reliant within the coming year in wheat and vegetable, within two year in rice and potato, within three year in maize and fish, within four year in banana, papaya and litchi and within ten years in kiwi, apple, orange, junar and mango. 102. Specialized Agriculture Production Areas will be identified on the basis of crop production capacity and fertility of agricultural land for the impleme ntation of the project. Activities of agricultural production, processing and marketing will be conducte d in such areas with theinvolvement of agricultural entrepreneurs, cooperatives, private sector and the Government. 103. Under this project, specialized agriculture production area will be classified into pocket, block, zone and super zone. Total of 2100 small commercial agricultural pocket areas, including 600 in the vicinity of postal road and 200 in the vicinity of Mid-Hill and feeder roads, will be established in at least 10 hectares of land. Two agricultural production and processing blocks covering at least 100 hectares of land will be established. Total of 30 agriculture pr oduction and processing zones covering 500 hectares of land will be established. One super z one covering 1000 hectares of land will be established in each province. 13 104. Improved and qualitative seed, seedling, plant and fishlings will b e made available easily in small business production pocket areas. Chemical and compost fertilizer will be made available in grant. Small drainage and cannel will be constructed for irrigation purpose. Modern agriculture knowledge and technology services will be made available. 105. In addition, 50 percent capital subsidies will be provided on agric ultural equipment and tools purchase in block and pocket area. 85 percent capital subsidies will be provided for the construction of agriculture production collection center, agriculture HaatBazza r center, primary processing center, warehouse/godown and business training center. 106. In addition to facilities accorded to pocket and block zone, 85 percent capital subsidy on seeds, plant, seedling and resource center for fish and 50 percent capital subsidy on production processing center, warehouse, and cold storage will be provided in agriculture zone. Techni cal School for agriculture entrepreneurs will be established. 107. 85 percent capital grant will be provided for the establishment of the seed, seedlings, plants, resource center of the fish, organic fertilizer factory and pesticide production centre in additional to pocket in the super zone, block, and other facilities in the zones. The construction of modern processing center, agriculture inputs factory, large cold house and warehouses and large a gro-marts(AgriMarts) will be provided 50 percent capital grants. Seed and seed protection, and soil test services will be provided. The farmers will be provided the details of the appropriate crops to be grown and fertility power including the soil test card by testing the soil. 108. The technical services through JT, JTA and agricultural experts will be provided free of cost in the specialized agricultural production sector. Food laboratory service s needed for seed test, crop preservation, food technology and quality control will be made avai lable free of costs. For this, services will be delivered through 15 mobile labs. 109. Up to 75 percent of total premium on insurance of Agriculture and Li vestock will be subsidized. Agriculture credit will be made available easily. I have i ncreased interest subsidy to 5 percent on agriculture and livestock credit. I have removed the threshold of Rs. 10 million set for agriculture credit under interest subsidy. An arrangement will be made to obtain agriculture credit in collateral of agriculture crops. Minimum price of main crops, like paddy, wheat, maize, and sugarcane will be fixed before plantation. 110. I have provisioned 50 percent of the capital grant for the construction of tissue culture laboratory for the corps like banana, potato and construction of fish pond. 111. I have provisioned 85 percent of capital grant for the construction of agriculture production collection center, community seed and agriculture product bank and post-harvest center. 112. Necessary arrangements have been made to provide output based i ncentive to farmers, agriculture entrepreneurs, group of agriculture entrepreneurs and agricult ure cooperatives who produce specified crops in designated areas in specified quantity or more. 14 113. Production base agriculture insurance program will be introduced a nd expanded with a view to reduce the risk of crop production and storage. 114. I have expected an increment of about Rs. 30 billion in Gross Domes tic Products in the coming Fiscal Year through the implementation of this program. Growth in Agriculture Production 115. Summer paddy promotion program will be expanded to 35 districts . Aromatic Rice Production Promotion Program will be implemented in 20 districts. 116. Mid-hill Greater Maize Production Program will be expanded to 41 districts. I have provisioned budget for implementation of campaigned maize production program i n 12 districts of TeraiMadhesh and plain areas. 117. Fruit forest will be developed as a campaign in partnership with the public and private sector, cooperative, and local community in vicinity of postal road, Puspalal (Mid-hill) Highway and other potential areas 118. Mulberry will be planted in 5000 hectares of land of 15 districts i n public-cooperative partnership for the expansion of sericulture. 119. A detailed master plan will be prepared for the promotion of cotton production in Banke, Bardia and Dang districts and for sericulture development and it's processing in Phanchathar, Terhathum, Gulmi and other feasible districts. 120. 75000 olive plants will be distributed in Bajhang, Bajura, Doti, Dadeldhura, Dolpa, Jajarkot, Rukum, Kalikot, Mugu, Humla, Ramechhap, Makawanpur, Solukhumbu, Manag, Khotang, and M ustang. I have allocated 50 percent capital grant in the purchase of olive oi l processing machine and its transportation and for the construction of Greenhouse, Net house and Shed house. 121. Himali Potato Production Program will be implemented in Taplejun g, Solukhumbu, Khotang, Sankhuwashava, Dolakha, Rasuwa, Gorkha, Manang, Mustang, Myagdi, Dolpa , Mugu, Humla, BajuraBajhang and Darchula. 122. I have allocated Rs. 5.47 billion for providing subsidy in chemical and organic fertilizer and improved seed and seedlings. 123. I have allocated budget to establish chemical and organic fertilizer and bio-pesticide manufacturing industries. These industries will be established and operated under public-private-cooperative partnership. Social Security of Farmer 124. Farmers’ Commission will be formed. Farmers will be class ified under four categories: agriculture labor, marginalized farmer, semi-entrepreneur farmer and entrepreneur framer. Feasibility study will be conducted to establish social security fund for farmers with farmers’ participation. Program for Self-sufficiency in Livestock Products 15 125. Livestock development program will be initiated with the objec tive to achieve self-sufficiency in egg, meat and dairy products within next one, two and three years, respectively. I have allocated Rs. 8.46 billion for this purpose. 126. Four improved cow breeding center will be established in Morang, Sarlahi, Rupendehi and Kanchanpur under public-private partnership. Three improved buf falow breeding centers will be established in Siraha, Baglung and Doti. 127. Cow and buffalo insemination program will be expanded to 45 districts . It is expected that number of improved cows and buffalos will be doubled within next five years through this program. 128. Milk holiday problem will be addressed through milk processing and diversification of dairy products. U.H.T. milk processing plant will be established in Butw al. Milk processing capacity of Dairy Development Corporation will be enhanced at Kohalpur and Attariya. 129. Forty five districts of mid-hill area will be developed as G oat farming pocket areas based on the feasibility. A resource center for goat farming will be es tablished in Pokhara with improved technology, management, training and pilot learning facilities. Sheep promotion and resource centers will established to promote wool and meet production in partnership with private and cooperative in Myagdi, Gorkha and other high-hill areas. 130. Wool and meet production will be increased by promoting Chyangra f arming in high-hill and mountainous areas. A Chyangra farm will be established for res earch, production and training in Mustang in partnership with private sector and cooperatives. 131. Model Pig Farming Business Park will be established in Kaski and Jhapa in public, private and cooperative partnership with a view to improve management, promot e export by improving meat quality, and develop this business more organized and environment friendly. 132. Chitwan and Dhadhing districts will be developed as a specialized zone of poultry farming. 133. In order to implement Rural Poultry Farm Program , I have made arrangement to provide subsidy for chicks, hatchery and construction of chicken coops with a view to a vailing to local farmers for their consumption and hospitality and for trekking routes of hill area and home stay. 134. I have allocated budget to establish a laboratory of international standard to provide technical service for livestock entrepreneurs. Scientific Forest Management 135. Policy of applying scientific and planned use of forest resources will be adopted. Sustainable system will be developed for conservation, development and use of forest. S cientific forest management program will be expanded from 6 districts to 11 districtsthat will help to increase production of timber and substitutes of its import. I have allocated Rs. 630 million for national forest development and management. 16 136. Pocket areas will be determined for production, processing and ma rketing of herbs and non-forest timber products. Appropriate knowledge, skill, technology and subsid y will be made accessible to farmers to increase commercial production of special herbs s uch as Timur, Lapsi, Lauthsalla, Bodhichitta, Rudrakshya , Cinnamons , Argali,Chyuri, Chiraito, Shreekhanda, Mentha , which are available in Karnali and other geographical regions. I have allocated necessary budget to implement this program. 137. Promotional program will be implemented to control excessive ex traction of natural herbs and promote its sustainable collection and management. 138. Conservation and planned utilization of natural resources available in 26 district of Chure and Terai-Madhesh region will be carried out as envisioned in the master plan. In this respect, additional program will be implemented under RastrapatiChure Conservation Pr ogram. I have allocated Rs. 1.88 billion for this purpose. 139. "Leasehold Forest, Poor's Wealth " program will be extended in 39 districts. Livelihood improvement, forest and environment conservation, capacity developme nt, animal husbandry, horticulture, and sustainable rural financial mobilization prog rams will be implemented under leasehold forest. These programs will help to conserve forest a nd environment. In addition, I have expected that this program will help improve livelihood and increa se income of 60,000 households of 7000 groups. I have allocated Rs. 380 million for the community and leasehold forest program. 140. Social awareness program will be implemented against fores t firing. Capacity development, awareness building, training and facilitation activities for l ocal entity and community will be conducted in 36 districts and 9 conservation areas of high risk of forest firing. 141. Strict legal action will be taken against person involved in forest firing. Necessary arrangement will be made to reward and provide recognition to the person who significantly contributes to reduce and control forest fire. 142. Policy of " One State, One Creature" will be adopted to conserve wildlife, conservation education and promotion of eco-tourism. A master plan to establish National Z oological Garden at Suryabinayak in Bhaktpur will be developed and implemented. 143. Programs for bio-diversity conservation, eco-tourism promotion, local employment and income generation will be implemented in various districts of Rapti , Bheri, Karnali and Seti zone. Conservation program will be implemented in Limi valley of Humla, Saipal of Bajhang and Jaljala of Rolpa. 144. Construction works for infrastructure development will be initiated with the aim of promoting ecotourism in Rara lake area. 145. I have increased budget to protect wildlife and their domicile, and to build physical infrastructure in conservation areas. Policy of zero tolerance will be adopted in controlling of wild life crime. 146. Private forest development promotion program will be expanded f rom 11 districts to 46 districts. Private sector will be supported to set up private forest, forest-nursery and forest based-enterprise. 17 Irrigation for Agriculture 147. Irrigation projects will be implemented in such a way that the irrigation facility will be made available to all cultivable land within coming five years. The sustainable arrangement will be ensured for the operation and maintenance of irrigation system that are already in place. 148. In the coming Fiscal Year, SamriddhaTerai-Madhesh Irrigation Special Program will be commenced in 11 districts with the target of furnishing irrigation facility through the modern irrigation system in 22 districts of Terai and Inner Madhesh. I have allocated Rs. 2.3 billion for this program. 149. The construction works of Sunkoshi-Marin Diversion Multi-Purpose Irri gation Project will be commenced in the coming Fiscal Year. By this project, the irr igation facility will be availed to 1,22,000 hectares of land of Sindhuli, Dhanusa, Mahottari, Sarlahi, Rautahat and Bara districts. 150. The remaining works of advanced irrigation systems Sikta, Rani J amaraKulariya, Babai, BheriBabai Diversion, Mahakali third and Bagmati Irrigation Proje ct, that are under construction, will be completed within three years. I have allocated Rs. 5.35 billion for these projects. 151. The remaining works of Koshi Pump Canal System, Kamala and Nara yani Lift Irrigation that fall under the rehabilitation and management hand-over program of greater Government irrigation program, will be completed. 152. A master plan of Gwarkhola Multipurpose Water Use Project of Dang district will be developed after its detailed feasibility study. 153. Construction work of Kankai Irrigation Project will be started a fter preparation of detailed project report. Construction work of Kaligandaki-Tinau, Sunkoshi-Kamala and Rapti-Kapilbastu Diversion Multipurpose projects will be commenced after preparation of Detailed Project Report. I have allocated budget for these projects. 154. Fish-farming will be encouraged in the main canals of irrigation system. Collaboration will be made with the private sector for production of solar power after inst allation of solar panel over the main canal of irrigation system. 155. Ongoing people's embankment program will be expanded to four addi tional rivers after securing people’s participation in Terai-Madhesh area in coming Fisca l Year. Managed river control programs will be carried out at big 12 rivers that flow through t he land of hill and high hill areas. I have allocated Rs. 3.98 billion for these programs. 156. Construction of embankment, embankment roads, bio-engineering and land re claimation programs will be conducted in Mahakali, Karnali and Narayani rivers in line with the Greater Master Plan. 157. Terai-Madhesh flood management and dwellings protection special progr am will be carried out in Morang, Saptari, Nawalparasi and Kailali districts of Terai-Madhesh. 158. Continuity has been given to the program related to landslide control and protection of the areas and headquarters that are vulnerable to landslide. 18 Land Reform 159. The land will be categorized on the basis of geographical structure, nature and its capacity. A landuse-map of all districts will be developed within coming thr ee years. Land categorization system will be brought into implementation in those districts where the land-use-map has been developed. The land classified for one purpose will be prohibited to use for another purpose. A bill related to land-use will be submitted to the LegislatureParliament in the coming Fiscal Year. 160. No agricultural land will be allowed to keep barren. I have ma de provision to impose penalty of 25 percent of the potential average production of such barren land. Recor d of such barren land will be maintained by the Office of Survey, concerned Municipality and Village Development Committee. 161. Organized Settlement Commission will be formed with term of t wo years with a view to control encroachment in public land and Trust from Mechi to Mahakali, to res olve the problem of unmanaged settlement and squatter. 162. The remaining work of rehabilitation of freed kamayas (bounded lab orers) will be completed in coming Fiscal Year. Freed Haliya (ploughman) rehabilitation work will be completed within coming two years. I have allocated Rs. 1.10 billion for this. Rehabili tation programme will be implemented in coming Fiscal Year after identification of HaruwaCharuwa (cowherd, shepherd). 163. Services related to land administration from 39 Offices of Land Revenue and Survey will be delivered online in coming Fiscal Year. Industrial Infrastructure: Basis for Production and Employment 164. Policy and legal reform will be initiated to develop Nepal as an attractive destination. Indicators of doing business cost will be improved. Formulation of conducive laws; maintenance of cordial labor relation; peaceful environment; and guarantee of investment protec tion will be ensured to attract foreign direct investment. 165. For promotion of private sectors and industrial expansion, Foreign Inves tment and Technology Transfer Act, Company Act, Insolvency Act, Accreditation Act, Mine Act, and Petroleum Product and Natural Gas Act will be tabled to the Legislature-Parl iament through the amendment or new Bill. 166. The due process of registration, de-registration and liability clearance of industries and businesses will be simplified, made clear and transparent by initiating the legal and structural reforms. 167. Decree to allow land beyond the threshold, 2012 will be amended to allow purchase of land required for Industrial and Business purposes. 168. Required amendment will be made in the provision of financial co-investment. Office of the Secured Transaction Registry will commence its service from coming Fiscal Year. Legal reform will be carried out to encourage donor agencies to issue bond in local currency. 169. The Challenge Fund worth of Rs. 1 billion will be established in or der to provide seed capital to innovative and entrepreneur youths with strategic vision in investment. P olicies and legal 19 arrangement related to operation and use of the Challenge Fund and Pri vate Equity will be formulated. 170. The Economic Revival Fund established in current Fiscal Year will be effectively mobilized and given continuity. I have allocated budget to be deposited to the Fund from the Government's side. 171. Agro-based, forest-based and mineral industries will be treated as Special Industries with respect to income tax exemption. 172. Taking into account the unusual circumstances caused by disruption in t he supply system in the beginning of this Fiscal Year, I have made provision to exempt demand fee of electricity to those industries operated below 50 percent of their capacity as compared to previous year. 173. The Government will prioritize the construction of roads and electri city transmission lines in the areas where big industries are located. Dedicated Feeder will be provided to the industrial enterprises for regular electricity supply. Supply of required electricity and fuel to the industries and businesses will be ensured within coming two years. 174. Nepal Investor's Summit will be organized in coming Fiscal Year. 175. The work of establishment of Modern Industrial Estate at Damak of Jhapa, Murtiya of Sarlahi, Hetauda of Makawanpur, Motipur of Rupandehi, Naubasta of Banke , Birendranagar of Surkhet, Lamki of Kailali and Daiji of Kanchanpur will be initiated. The policy of "One State One Industrial Estate " will be adopted. 176. Newly established industrial estates will be developed as t he special industrial zones that produce specialized goods. A Readymade Garment Production Zone in Simara will be completed within coming two years. Processing Centers for Herbal in Surkhet, A pple in Jumla and Mustang will be established with public private partnership. 177. The industrial estates established in Kathmandu Valley will b e shifted out of the valley within coming two years. 178. The policy of leasing of Government owned sick industries, retainin g their ownership with the Government, to the private sector for investment management and operation will be initiated. 179. Private sector will be encouraged to produce drugs within the c ountry that are supposed to be distributed freely by the government. Value Added Tax will be exempted and only 1 percent customs duty will be imposed on import of machinery for Battery Disposal and Reproduction Factory. 180. Advanced National Mine Inventory will be prepared through identifying the stock of Mine, Minerals, Petroleum and Gas-Based items. Based on this, private sector will be encouraged to invest in mine and mine-based industry. 181. In order to offer concessional loan to Women Entrepreneur without col lateral, I have allocated additional Rs. 180 million in the Women Entrepreneurship Development Fund. 182. In order to promote and modernize traditional skill and profession of Dalit community, I have allocated budget to establish Bhagat Sarbajit Silpa Utthan and Bikash Kendra . 20 183. To enhance industrial competitiveness, an Industrial Center for Excellence will be established at Chitawan under Public Private Partnership. 184. I have allocated Rs. 7.05 billion to carry out industrial sector program, Labor and Employment Management 185. An arrangement has been made to implement contributory social se curity program for the welfare of labor in the next fiscal year. In this regard, accidental ins urance in the work place, protection of motherhood, sick and medical treatment plan will be implemented. 186. Integrated Social Security Bill and Amendment Bill of Labor A ct will be approved which are currently under consideration at Legislature Parliament. 187. In order to develop skill human resource to cater internal and external employment opportunity, skill development training will be extended effectively. 188. National employment policy will be implemented with an action plan. Employment Guarantee Bill will be submitted to the LegislatureParliament in the next fiscal year. 189. Entrepreneurship health and security policy will be formulated. In order to ensure smooth, safe and conducive working environment of industry and entrepreneurs houses, entrepre neurship health and security Act will be formulated. 190. Rapid rescue team will be mobilized through Nepali mission a broad to rescue differently abled, troubled, and Nepali workers who are the victims of violence including women in foreign employment. 191. I have provisioned a compulsory arrangement to conduct labor test at factory and work place. For this purpose, necessary labor inspector will be mobilized. 192. Bilateral agreements will be concluded with major destinati on country in order to ensure migrant workers’ right, welfare and security. Agreements will be sign ed with Oman, Lebanon, Jordan and Malaysia in the upcoming Fiscal Year in this respect. 193. Transfer of remittance through formal channels will be encourage d. I have provisioned to provide 25 percent exemption on the registration charge on purchase of land a nd houses, if the evidence of remittance received through the banking channel is presented. With the same evidence, such income will be allowed to invest on those projects as invited by the Government. 194. Registration of workers involved in informal sectors will be initiated. Arrangements will be made to test skills and capabilities of these workers and provide certificate. Similar arrangement will be made to test skills and efficiency of worker to provide certificate who return from the foreign employment. International Trade 195. Nepali original productions will be labeled and branded as Hima layan unique product and special programs will be carried out to promote exports. 21 196. I have allocated budget to increase the production of highly export oriented products and sector specific special programs for product development and enhancement. 197. To expand the entry of Nepali production into the international market , trade agreements will be concluded with additional countries. Transaction cost of trade will be reduced by easing transit from both neighboring countries. Integrated Security Check post of Birgunj will be brought into operation within the upcoming fiscal year. Pace of construction of dry por t of Rasuwagadhi, Biratnagar and Belihiya will be accelerated. 198. Business information portal will be established and brought into operations in order to ease and giving access to necessary information with respect to export to different countries of the world. 199. A detail study will be carried out for the construction of dry por t at Dodhara-Chandani. Construction work will be initiated by acquiring the land within the next fiscal year. Improvement in the Supply Mechanism 200. In order to ease supply of petroleum products and increase the s torage capacity of Nepal Oil Corporation to maintain demand capacity of minimum of 90 days, land acqui sition, preparation of detail project proposal and resource management will be compl eted and construction work will be initiated at Panchkhal of Kavrepalanchowk, Khairanitar of Tanahu and Ba ttar/Betrawati of Nuwakot. Feasibility study to construct 10,000 metric ton of L.P. Ga s storage structure in Kavrepalanchowk will be carried out. 201. Government owned public enterprises like National Trading Limi ted, Nepal Food Corporation, Agriculture Input Company Ltd. and Timber Corporation of Nepal L imited will be merged into National Supply Company. 202. I have given continuity to the existing transportation grant to ens ure the regular supply of food and salt in Karnali and other remote and Himalayan districts. Transportation grant will be made available for additional food supply in drought affected districts. 203. In order to protect the rights and wellbeing of the consumers, the existing laws will be amended for effective implementation. 204. In order to make the easy access of daily essential goods, distribution channel will be improved and market monitoring will be made effective. Easy Access and Quality Education 205. Basic education will be made free and compulsory. Secondary education will be gradually made free and compulsory. 206. School Sector Development Program will be implemented in next fiscal year to enhance the access of children to school, improve the quality of teaching and learning; a nd ensure transparency and accountability of managerial structure. I have allocated Rs.26.25 billion for this purpose. 22 207. For the assurance, continuation and improvement of learning achievement of basic education, I have allocated budget to provide target incentives to the children from targeted group, area and deprived groups. 208. A special program will be carried out to continue education for those children who are not enrolled and dropouts. 209. I have allocated budget to conduct a promotional program to identify children who are not enrolled in the schools and ensure their enrolment in the school for their continued learning in Terai districts. 210. Human resource development national plan will be formulated for different sectors, after needs assessment. The Government will adopt a strategy of developi ng the necessary technical and specialized human resources within the country for construction and service sector. 211. An appropriate educational system will be developed to mee t the national demand of medium and high level technical manpower after the basic education. 212. I have given the continuity to Day Meal Program for the students of Karnali zone and those who are below the Human Development Index and belonging to other specified districts. Arrangements have been made to provide free high level education in all subjects for Dalits and endangered community's children. For this purpose, motivational scholarship program will be introduced. 213. Residential schools will be extended to all scattered area of mountainous and high hill area including Karnali. 214. Voucher based cash grant will be provided to highly marginalized c ommunity students including Badi, Haliya, Gandarbha , Musahar, Dom, Chamar to make them able to select school and continue their study. 215. Gurukul, Monastery and Madarasa education will be promoted and streamlined. 216. ShaharsaKapali hostel situated at Bijeshwori will be upgraded and made well equipped. 217. Excess teachers’ positions at the primary level will be adjusted based on mapping and redistribution of teacher's position into 6 to 8 grades. English, Math, Science and Technical Subject teacher's position will be increased in the community schools. 218. A post of Principal will be created to improve teaching and learning environment without increasing the number of current positions. A performance contract agreement will be made between the Principal and Teacher, Principal and Education Officer. There will be an arrangement for evaluation of a teacher to reward and punish on the basis of work performance and percentage of student pass out. 219. School management committee, Principal and teachers will be m ade accountable through social audit in all the stages of teaching and learnings. 220. A campaign of quality improvement program will be implemented to remove differences in quality of teaching and learning at community and institutional schools, rural a nd urban area's schools. Community school's teaching and learning medium will be changed into English gradually. 23 221. Time-bound management contract will be concluded with private schools and colleges for operation and management of community schools and colleges. Due respect will be given to private sector schools and colleges for their participation in the reform of educational quality. 222. I have made arrangement to provide subsidy for installing infra structure of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in each community school. Setting up of ICT laboratory, use of Smart Board and interactive Electronic Teaching Learning system will be expanded to the schools. 223. Madan Bhandari Science and Technology Academy will be established at Mayurdhap of Hetauda Municipality for production of required skilled manpower in the a rea of Science and Technology. Ongoing works of establishing Madan Bhandari Industrial University will be further accelerated. 224. Works for the establishment of Medical College in Bardibas, Butwal and Surkhet will be initiated in line with the concept of One State One Medical College. Poly technique institute will be established in each Province. 225. Academic reform will be carried out in the universities for improvement of educational quality. Performance contract with Lecturers and Professors of the Universities will be concluded. Academic activities of the Universities will be run as per academic calendar. 226. Infrastructure of Mid-Western and Far-Western Universities will be developed. Fifteen and Ten campuses of the Far-Western and Mid-Western region, respectively will be made affiliated with the Universities of respective region in the form of Affiliated Campus. 227. Master’s Degree students, during the last six months of their aca demic year, will be assigned as volunteers, to teaching, learning and development works under various Village Development Committees with a view to building Prosperous Nepal . 228. Works for establishment of BidushiYogmayaAyurbeda University will be initiated for development and promotion of Ayurveda Medincinal System. 229. Agriculture campuses will be established in all districts, g radually. During coming Fiscal Year, Agriculture Campus will be established in Gauradaha of Jhapa i n affiliation with the Tribhuvan University. 230. Arrangement will be made so as to avail interest-free loan i n collateral of academic certificate, to the students willing to pursue higher education equivalent to Bachelor’s Degree or above. 231. Programs for strengthening of Teaching Hospitals and expansion of their services and facilities will be implemented. Capacity of Suresh Wagley Cancer Hospital will be enhanced. Lungs Investigation and Treatment Center will be established in collaboration with the Teaching Hospital under the Kathmandu University. Youth and Sports 232. Construction of Cricket Stadium in Mulpani, Bhairahawa and Dhangadhi wil l be completed within coming three years. Construction works for new Cricket Stadium in Dadeldhura, Baitadi, Dhanusha, Morang, Dang, Surkhet and Parsa will be initiated. 24 233. Construction works for stadium of international standard at Lakhanpur of Jhapa and Kathmandu will be started next year. I have allocated budget for construction of one stadium and one multi-purpose covered hall in each Province. 234. I have allocated budget for necessary physical infrastructur e for the 13th South Asian Game to be organized in Nepal in 2018 AD. I have allocated Rs. 200 million for organi zing the 7th National Sports Programme next year. 235. Organization of President Running Shield Competition will be made c ompulsoryin all community schools of the 75 districts with a view to grooming players right from their school days. 236. Youth Self-employment Programme will be expanded. Youths will b e prioritized to be engaged in the increase of production in agriculture, livestock, industry,forestry and service sector programs. 237. Budget has been allocated for the implementation of a model programTen Youths One Enterprise in all electoral constituencies with a view to promote local pr oduction, create opportunities of employment and income generation through developing entrepreneurship among the youths. 238. Policy to reward international medal winning players will be adopted. 239. Construction of High Altitude Sports Stadium in Mustang and Solukhumbu will be started. Access to Quality Health Services 240. I have made arrangement for phase wise implementation of “ National Health Insurance Plan ” with a view to perpetually ending of the situation where a citizen gets deprived of medical treatment merely because of poverty. This plan will be expanded across the 25 districts in the coming Fiscal Year. I have allocated Rs. 2.5 billion for this. 241. Bir Hospital will be developed as international standard hospita l equipped with ultra-modern physical infrastructure, equipment and specialty health servi ces at appropriate location in Kathmandu Valley with space of at least 500 Ropanis of land with a view to providing modern and specialty health services to all Nepali people within the country. Construction work will be started in the coming Fiscal Year after identifying land and preparing the master plan. 242. Modern health laboratory and kidney treatment centre will be es tablished at Tinkune, Sallaghari of Bhaktapur. 243. I have expanded comprehensive emergency obstetric and neonatal service in 75 districts to provide free and safe obstetric service to female. “SunaulaHazar Din” program will be made further effective to ensure nutrition of mother and child. 244. I have increased the dress allowance of female community heal th volunteers by Rs. 1500 as appreciation of their social contribution. I have arranged for their health insurance. 245. Free immunization service against 11 types of diseases will b e provided to 700,000 children in the coming Fiscal Year. 246. Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) will be followed to improve quality of Ayurvedic medicine. 25 247. I have allocated Rs.1 billion to provide subsidy to the poor citi zen for free treatment against eight types of diseases. I have made dialysis service free of cost until the kidney transplantation is made. I have expanded the services for identification and treatment a gainst Sickle Cell Anemia appeared particularly among Tharu community of Terai-Madhesh region. 248. In order to make “One Village One Doctor” program effective, scholarship for MBBS study will be provided to entrance passed students of the respective village. I ha ve made provision to require the student to serve in their own villages for 5 years after completion of their study under the scholarship. 249. Treatment of Cancer, Heart, Kidney and Liver diseases in the G overnment hospitals will be made free of cost for the citizens below poverty line. 250. I have made provision for the specialist doctors who obtained MD or MS Degree under Government scholarship to compulsorily serve in the remote areas for speci fied period. I have allocated Rs. 450 million for this purpose. 251. I have allocated Rs. 480 million for the construction and operation of Dasarath Health Science Academy in Geta of Kailali. 252. I have arranged so as to provide additional services for diagnosis and treatment of cancer disease from Dharan in the East and Nepalgunj in the West. 253. Robust system will be developed for monitoring of service del ivery, quality of medicine and maintenance of code of conduct of health workers. A Public Health Bill will be tabled to LegislatureParliament for regulation of quality of public, private and community health services. Pure Drinking Water for All 254. Basic drinking water and sanitation services will be provided t o all Nepalese within coming three years. I have proposed program that will benefit 1.2 million cit izens with drinking water and sanitation. 255. Most of the construction activities of first stage tunnel and water treatment centre of Melamchi Drinking Water Project will be completed in coming Fiscal Year. Preparation of necessary structure of water distribution in urban area of Kathmandu valley will be completed by this period. Distribution of water will be started by Mid-October 2017. I h ave allocated Rs 5.98 billion for the completion of this national pride project. 256. Construction of necessary structures for the collection of additional 340 million liters of water from Yangri and Larke rivers to Kathmandu Valley and distribution to the areas outside ring road will be started under the second phase of Melamchi Drinking Water Project. 257. The Government will prioritize the implementation of Drinking Wa ter Program on the basis of cofinancing in order to encourage people’s participation. I have allocated Rs. 1.63 billion for urban drinking water projects, co-financed drinking water projects and drinking water quality improvement projects. 26 258. Roads will be constructed and expanded in the river banks of Kathmandu Valley where roadsare not constructed. Sewerage will be managed for the cleanliness and b eauty of the river by removing the unplanned settlement. 259. I have made an arrangement to commence Terai-Madesh Drinking Wa ter Improvement Program from the beginning of coming Fiscal Year to reduce adverse impact of arsenic contaminated drinking water on health of Sisters and Brothers of 20 districts of Terai-Madhesh by supplying clean drinking water for them. One hundred projects will be operated at once in the first stage to manage the supply of drinking water through deep boring along with solar pump overhead tanks by replacing swallow tube wells. 260. The construction work of central distribution system based on new tec hnology will be started from the coming Fiscal Year to provide easy and enough supply of drinking water in Terai-Madhesh and inner-Madhesh. 261. I have allocated budget in the coming Fiscal Year for the imp lementation of Broader Pumping Special Project to provide drinking water in Tansen Municipality, Gorkha Municipality, Halesi Area, AaganMauwa Area, Surkhet Valley, Gulmi and Arghakhanchi. I have ma naged budget so as to complete the Drinking Water Project of Ramechhap, Yasok, Tim al and Pakarwas Area within coming three years. 262. I have allocated Rs. 8.03 billion to expedite the construction of 3000 ong oing projects, to start the construction of additional 2000 projects and to rehabilitate 1600 project s for the sustainable management and operation of drinking water system. 263. Qualitative distribution system of drinking water will be ma de effective in Kathmandu Valley by regulating the agencies involved in the supply of drinking water. For this purpose, distribution time schedule will also be made public. Tankers, Jars and bottling service providers, operated by private sector, will be brought within the scope of monitoring and supervision. Airport, Tourism Infrastructure and Culture Promotion 264. Construction work of the Gautam Buddha International Airport will be expedited in order to operate from the Mid-January 2018. For this purpose, I have allocated Rs. 7.22 bil lion. Construction work of Pokhara Regional International Airport will be completed withi n coming four years. For this, I have allocated Rs. 5 billion. I have allocated Rs. 1.50 billion to com plete the land acquisition and fencing work of the International Airport in Nijgadh in the coming Fiscal Year. It will be initiated to manage fund by preparing Detail Project Report and Implementation modality. 265. Airports of Jiri of Dolakha, Patan of Baitadi, Sanfebagar of A ccham, Gokuleshwor of Darchula, Rajbiral of Saptari and Kanchanpur of Kanchanpur, which were operated and closed in the past will be made operational by repairing them. Capacity of Dhangadhi, Dang and Biratnagar Airports will be expanded. 266. It is a matter of great concern for all of us that Lumbini Development Master Plan developed by World renowned Professor KenjoTange couldn’t be implemented even afte r lapses of 38 years. 27 Therefore, I have made arrangements to carry out the constructi on work in order to complete the remaining work of Lumbini Development Master Plan within two years. The construction work will be expedited with priority by preparing Broader Lumbini De velopment Master Plan for the greater development of Lumbini area. Master Plan of Pashupatinath, Janakp ur and Muktinath area will be prepared in the coming Fiscal Year and will be implemented effectively. 267. The construction work of National Cultural Museum will be initiated in Kirtipur in the coming Fiscal Year reflecting all Tribes, Languages, Lavishness, Customs, Literature and traditions. Narayanhiti will be developed as Historical Museum. 268. Required land will be acquired for the excavation and preservation of ancient Tilaurakot. High priority will be accorded for the preservation and development of ancient Ramgram. Ancient Sinja Civilization Preservation and Development Academy will be established. 269. Integrated Rescue Centre will be constructed in Sagarmatha, Annapurna, Rolwaling region keeping in view of the mountaineers' safety. 270. Nepal Airlines Corporation will be converted into a company and will be operated through strategic partner or management contract to expand its services by making it more competitive. Necessary arrangement will be made to procure two wide body aircraft in the coming Fiscal Year. 271. Kusemuse Chakhure Integrated Tourism Development Program will be operationalized for the integrated development of tourism by covering the area of Achham, Kalikot, Mugu, Jumla, Dolpa, Rukum, Rolpa, Jajarkot and Dailekh districts. 272. Tharu Museum in Bardia and Ranatharu Museum in Kanchunnpur will be constructed for the protection and preservation of cultural traditions of Tharu. 273. Helipads will be constructed in each Village Development C ommittee and Municipalities in the initiation of local bodies and the participation of People for immediate rescue of the disaster affected people and to facilitate disaster management. 274. In the commemoration of Mass Leader Madan Bhandari and JiwarajAshr it, Madan –Ashrit Memorial Park will be constructed in Dasadhunga of Chitwan Distr ict where mysterious jeep accident had taken place and in Gunjannagar where the dead-body was found. An arrangement will be made for voyage from Dasdhunga to Gunjanager. 275. New tourist destinations will be identified. Tourism road and hiking routes will be upgraded. 276. A Master Plan will be prepared for the development of Bindaba shini of Kaski, Manakamana of Gorkha, Dakshinkali of Kathmandu, Bhimeshower of Dolakha, PalanchokBhagabati of KabhrePalanchok, Haleshi of Khotang, Sworgadwari of Pyuthan, Pathibha ra of Taplejung, Simmriugad / Gadimai of Bara, Chhinnamasta of Saptari, SahalesPhulbari of Siraha, BarahChhetra of Sunsari, Tripura Sundari of Baitadi and Chandannath of Jumla, and participation of private sector will be invited in the construction and operation of such development. 28 277. Legal and institutional restructuring will be made of Pashupati Area Development Fund, Lumbini Development Fund and Greater Janakpur Development Committee. 278. Mid-April 2016 to Mid-April 2017 will be celebrated as Internal V isit Year. Required preparatory works will be completed to celebrate 2018 as Nepal Visit Year. 279. I have allocated Rs. 500 million to provide capital grant to Marty's Foundation including Memorial Foundations of Pushpalal, B.P. Koirala, Madan Bhandari Man Mohan Adhikari, Ganesh Man Singh, Jiba Raj Ashrit, Tulsi Lal Amatya, Krishna Prasad BhatTerai, Girija Prasad Koirala, Sahana Pradhan, Ram NathDahal, Nar Bahadur Karmacharya, Moti Devi, NetralalAbhagi, Mahendra Narayan Nidhi, Gajendra Narayan Sinha, Nirmal Lama, RupchandraBista, RishhiDevkota Ajad, Ram Prasad Rai, Krishna Sen Icchuk and Post Bahadur Bogati. Information and Communication 280. 4-G service will be commenced in Kathmandu Valley and Sub-Metro politans. Hi speed internet service will be provided in 72 district headquarters expanding the optical fiber in Mid-Hill Highway and Postal Highway. Internet service will be provided through micr owave transmission service in remote area where optical fiber would be difficult to provide. 281. Internet service will be provided free of cost in community campuses, community higher-secondary and secondary schools and primary health centers through the microwave transmission service utilizing the Rural Telecommunication Development Fund. 282. Policy, legal and organizational reform will be initiated in Nep al Television, Radio Nepal and Gorkhapatra Corporation to make them professional and self-sustaine d. Transmission and broadcasting of Nepal Television and Radio Nepal will be expanded in Terai in local languages. 283. Implementation status of Right to Information and content related to Right to Information published through the mass communication media will be audited by National Information Commission. 284. I have made arrangements for providing 50 percent discount in the m edical expenses of the Journalists in the Government hospitals. 285. Postal service will be provided through the local bodies by restr ucturing it. It will be initiated for making payments of public utilities through post offices and the saving banking services will be converted into Any Branch Banking System. 286. A policy, legal and structural arrangement will be made to es tablish security press and to print the materials including the paper notes, passports, excise stickers, identification certificates, citizenship certificates, bonds, cheque-books, and certificates within the country. Local Infrastructure 287. Local service delivery will be made effective by developi ng qualitative economic, social and local infrastructures. Local bodies will be restructured after as certaining the numbers and boundary. Preparatory works for establishing the Provincial Government will be initiated. 29 288. I have doubled the grant amount to be provided to VDC's in order t o make " Let's Build our Own Village " Program more sound and effective. For this purpose, I have allocate d Rs.15.55 billion. Village Development Committees will be upgraded in order to develop it as a local Government in line with Constitutional provision. Arrangements will be made for effective service delivery at local level by assigning officers under the agriculture, livestock, health and urban development agencies. 289. I have doubled the grants for municipalities to develop infrast ructures and to implement Let's Decorate Our City by Ourselves. I have allocated Rs.13.09 billion for this purpose. I have allocated Rs. 32.64 billion for the grants to local bodies. 290. I have doubled the social security allowance to be provided to senior citizens, single woman, disabled persons and endangered indigenous people. I have allocated Rs. 32.7 billion for this purpose. 291. I have made an arrangement for two children from the disadvantaged fa milies of all regions to get children protection grant gradually. 292. A taskforce of experts will be formed to make recommendations f or sustainable resource management regarding social security. 293. All of the social security allowances will be provided through bank accounts. Bank Account for All Nepali as Campaign will be launched for this purpose. An arrangement will be made through Nepal Rastra Bank to open zero balance bank account. Every cash transfer including insurance payment made from the Government to the citizen will be paid only through the bank account. 294. I have increased the budget of Constituency Infrastructure Devel opment special program to Rs.30 million considering that elected parliamentarians could involve thems elves for the development of their constituencies by deepening the relationship between peo ple’s representatives and the people and also considering that local development needs could also be addressed through people’s representatives. I have increased the budget of constituency d evelopment program to Rs.5 million. To implement the Constituency Infrastructure Development Spec ial Program, I have made an arrangement under which a team of directly elected Parliam entarians under first past the post and proportionately elected or nominated Parliamentarians will select the development projects on roads, bridges, water supply, irrigation, education, health and renewable e nergy sector infrastructure development out of the approved projects by District Council, Munici pal Council and Village Council and allocate at least Rs.1 million for each project tota ling 30 projects at maximum in a constituency. Concerned District Development Committee will b e responsible for the implementation and the settlements of the accounts on such projects. I have made a provision under which the Parliamentarians elected proportionately or nominated c ould choose any one of 240 constituencies to participate in Constituency Infrastructure Deve lopment Special Program. I have made arrangement for conducting public audit of such expenditures. 295. I have increased the house rent allowances for Hon. Members of the Legislative-Parliament. 30 296. A High Level Committee on Cast-based Discrimination and Untouchab ility Elimination will be formed in the leadership of the Prime Minister to eliminate the discrimination. Caste-based Discrimination and Untouchability Elimination Day will be observed in 03 June every year. 297. Research and development activities on disappearing Mithila Art will be conducted. 298. I have expanded the border area development program which was commenced by targeting the areas lagging behind for development in the Terai-Madhesh to 20 district s as well and allocated Rs.1 billion to make this program more effective. The program will be implemented in the bordering Village Development Committees of the southern part. 299. A total of 155 traditional ropeways used for crossing rivers around t he country will be replaced by suspension bridges by mid-September 2018. I have allocated Rs. 1billion for this purpose. 300. Every Village Development Committee will be linked by motor able roads within next two years. I have allocated Rs.500 million for this purpose. 301. Solar street lights will be installed gradually in every municipality under public private partnership model. 302. The political parties, social groups or organizations will b e encouraged to mobilize the volunteers for the development, rescue, relief and disaster management in coordination with local bodies. 303. I have given continuation to Bishweshwar with Poor program. Women Upliftment 304. I have made an arrangement for the implementation of President Women Upliftment Program in order to implement women empowerment programs including elimination of gender discrimination, skill and entrepreneurship development, and academic research fellowship programs. 305. Skill development and orientation related trainings will be pr ovided to women to develop their entrepreneurship capacity. Seed capital will be provided to s upport women to be self-employed through entrepreneurship development. 306. I have annulled the mandatory provision of refunding the amount of rebate facility to the government in case the property is sold within three years after it came under women’s ownership. 307. Rehabilitation programs will be implemented for the disabled people. Old-aged homes and day care services for the senior citizens will be expanded to make their life easy and creative. 308. Special programs will be implemented to increase the wi llpower and the dignity of the disabled persons. 309. I have made it mandatory for public places including governm ent offices, educational and health institutions to construct disabled friendly infrastructures. 310. Arrangements will be made for rescue, management and rehabilit ation of the children living the abandoned, risky and disordered life in the streets. 31 311. Short term rehabilitation homes will be expanded in order to prote ct the rescued women living without support after the domestic and gender violence. 312. Girl education and skill development programs will be implemente d in order to end the violence against women caused by early marriage and dowry. Awareness pr ograms will be broadcasted in local language by media. Science and Technology 313. Brilliant scientists will be motivated to remain active in s tudy and research in the home country. I have introduced the research fellowship for the young scientists. A p olicy will be followed to offer rewards to the innovating scientists. National scientists’ conference will be convened next year. 314. A Bill on Atomic Materials Regulation and an umbrella bill on information technologies will be tabled to the Legislature-Parliament next year. 315. Feasibility study will be conducted to set up an energy efficient and cheaper data server in high hill area. Foreign direct investment will be attracted to set up data server. Capacity of National Information Centre will be enhanced. Environment 316. Policies and legal provisions will be made simpler, transpare nt and effective to maintain balance between development and the environment. System will be developed to make environment impact assessment process quicker and simpler for the development projects. 317. National capacity will be developed in mobilizing foreign as sistance in mitigation and adaption of climate change affects. 318. To eliminate the negative effects of plastics and polypropylene bags in human health, environment, and urban beauty; import, export, sales, distribution and consumption of plastics and polypropylene bags have been banned. Industries producing such bags will be enc ouraged to get involved in alternative productions. I have exempted the value added tax fully and managed to charge only one percent customs duty for machineries and equipment for this purpose. 319. Solar farming program of 300 mw capacity will be implemented. 320. Installation of solar power system will be made mandatory for the houses to be built in the Kathmandu Valley. 321. Every House Energy House program will be expanded as a campaign to reduce dependency on traditional and imported energy and to increase the access to renewable energy. Under this campaign, lights for education, solar pumping system for farmer’s irrigat ion, one farmer one biogas plant and rooftop solar programs will be conducted. I have increased the subsidies being provided under such programs. I have allocated Rs.6.10 billion for subsidy and promotion of renewable energy. 322. 100,000 biogas plants, 90,000 improved ovens and solar lights on 100,000 households will be set up in the next fiscal year. 32 323. 25,000 solar lamps will be provided to the girls students of grade 10 f rom Dalit and endangered community. National Security, Law and Order and Judicial Administration 324. National security policy will be executed for the national i nterest. National security law will be formulated. 325. Nepal Army will be made resourceful and capable and mobiliz ed for national security, disaster management and development works. Air base for Nepal Army will be established in Itahari and Surkhet. 326. Bunkers to Barrack program of Nepal Army will be completed within next two years. 327. National Cadet Corps (Rastriya Sewa Dal) program will b e expanded in order to make the youths devoted to the nation, make them patriotic and disciplined. 328. Environment of maintaining law, order, peace and security will be ensured through mobilizing the man power under Local Administration, Nepal Police, Armed Police Force and National Investigation Department in a coordinated manner. 329. Citizenship certificates will be issued through fully computer ized system. Issuing visa through computerized system will be implemented within next fiscal year. Issuance of National Identity Card will be expedited. 330. Surveillance and monitoring of the criminal activities in the main cities will be done through CCTV. 24 hours monitoring automation system will be established for all information of vehicle movement in main check points entering capital city including security sensitive areas. 331. Local administration and police force will be mobilized effec tively for smoothly implementing the development and construction works, in order to manage security in meg a projects and to provide business security. 332. Jail construction will be started in Nuwakot and Naubasta of Banke district to complete them within next four years. 333. Legal services will be reinforced aiming to give access to justice for all. To uphold the value of independent court, I have allocated the budget to make independent, c lean, timely and transparent legal system. Necessary legal and structural provisions will be made to convert Appellate Court into High Court. 334. Racial discrimination and untouchable related crime reduction progr ams will be implemented effectively. Foreign Affairs 335. Economic and development diplomacy will be introduced in order to increase foreign assistance and direct foreign investment and international trade promotion. 33 336. Online application system will be implemented to provide passp ort within next year. Necessary infrastructure will be developed to issue e-passport. 337. Implementation and monitoring unit will be formed under the secret ary of Ministry of Foreign Affairs to address and implement the bilateral beneficial agreements signed during the official visit to India and China by Honrable Prime Minister K. P. Sharma Oli. 338. Voting rights will be provided to the Nepali citizens living ab road for the election to be held at Federal, Provincial and local level. Cooperatives 339. Socially and economically marginalized, landless and deprived clas ses will be encouraged towards cooperative farming. Traditional business of backward and Dalit people will be encouraged to transform and promote modernization through cooperative organization. 340. Amendment proposal on the Cooperative Act will be submitted in the Legislature-Parliament to develop the cooperative sector. A separate structural institut ion will be established to monitor and regulate the saving and credit cooperatives. 341. Capital grant will be made available on the basis of standard agriculture processes and group farming of spices, tea, coffee, cardamom, ginger, herbs, fruits, green vegeta bles, fishery, mean, honey and milk production through cooperatives. 342. Necessary budget is allocated to initiate the construction proc ess of Cooperative Market Center in Lagankhel, Lalitpur and Bharatpur to assist the sales and distri bution of the production by cooperatives in the coming Fiscal Year. Poverty Alleviation 343. All programs will be directed towards the poverty alleviation through coordinating the operation of income generation opportunity creation, empowerment and social security programs. 344. I believe that investment in infrastructure area, quality servic e delivery through social sector and expansion of economic activities will provide favorable impact on the employment and income generation activities so that, poverty level will be reduced remarkably. 345. State Security Identity Card will be distributed to Nepali citizens by identifying them living below the poverty line to the citizens of 25 districts in the coming Fi scal Year and to the citizens of remaining districts in the FY 2017/18. 346. I have continued the Western Uplands Poverty Alleviation Project, r unning in 153 Village Development Committee of 8 Districts in Mid-West and Far-West. 347. A mechanism with database will be developed in each Provinc e for monitoring poverty on regular basis. Financial Sector Reform 34 348. Financial Sector Development Strategy will be implemented to improve financial sector reform programs. 349. Nepal Rastra Bank Act Amendment Bill, Bank and Financial Institut ion related Bill, Deposit and Credit Guarantee Bill, Employees Provident Fund Act Amendment B ill and Banking Crime Act Amendment Bill, which are under consideration in the Legislature-Par liament will be passed and implemented. Amendment Bills of Foreign Exchange Regulation Act and Citizen Investment Fund Act, Insurance Bill and Commodity Market Related Bills will b e submitted in the LegislatureParliament in the next Fiscal Year. 350. Infrastructure Development Bank will be established with public private partnership to increase the investment in infrastructure sector. 351. Bank and Financial Institutions will be encouraged to expand their se rvices in rural sector. Mobile Banking and Branchless banks will be promoted. 352. Production based companies will be encouraged to be listed in the s tock market. For the industries and businesses established under public companies and Companies listed in the stock market, I have provisioned 15 percent tax rebate on their income. 353. Insurance companies will be encouraged to expand the access in r ural sector. A provision will be made to insure government property, cultural and archeological heritages. A provision will be made to insure private houses. 354. A compulsory provision has been made to the insurance companies to dedicate minimum 5 percent of their insurance services to micro insurance. From this, I believe the risk of agricultural, cattle and other small business will be reduced. 355. Under the vehicle insurance, a similar provision of third party ins urance will be made to insure the passengers travelling in public vehicles. 356. The concessional loan provided by Rural Self Reliance Fund, Poverty Alleviation Fund and Youth and Small Business Self Employment Fund will be continued. The implementation of concessional agriculture loan program focused on youth and small Business will be made mandatory to the bank and financial institutions. 357. Financial literacy program will effectively be expedited. 358. A project specific debenture issuance provision will be implemented through utilizing the financial resources available in Employees Provident Fund, Citizen Investme nt fund, Deposit and Credit Guarantee Fund and Insurance sectors. International Economic Cooperation 359. International economic assistance will be mobilized in the are as of capital formation and productivity enhancement. 360. International economic assistance will be mobilized in the nati onal priority sector through national country system. 35 361. Effective coordination will be maintained between the implementing agencies, Ministry of Finance and the development partners for the full utilization of the assistance and completion of the projects within the stipulated timeframe. 362. The assistance mobilized from the International Non-governmental Organization and the output from their assistance will be monitored effectively. The impact of such assistance will be accounted in the related sector. Corruption Control 363. The state system will be made transparent. A system will be developed in all state agencies to be responsible for their own service delivery. Effectiveness of s ervice delivery of the agencies will be enhanced through capacity development and full utilization of resourc es. A focus will be given to the development of corruption free, righteous and well-disciplined public service. 364. Maximum utilization of information technology will be boosted in public service delivery. Intensive monitoring will be made to end the improper and corrupted activit ies between beneficiaries and service providers. The middlemen will be under surveillance in government agencies. 365. Social awareness against the corruption, recognition of zero t olerance against corruption and integrity will be promoted. 366. The capacity of constitutional bodies related to investigation and prosecution will be developed. Necessary law, resource and manpower will be arranged. Public Service 367. A comprehensive study will be carried out to fulfill the needs of the size of human resource, selection system, merits and terms and conditions of human resources for the S tate operation in the changed context. 368. Public administration will be developed as a capable insti tution to serve as an able, sensitive, responsible, development friendly and conductor of change. 369. Training will be focused for capacity development of human res ource, motivation and effective public service delivery. Compulsory pre-service training will be arranged for the new comers of public service. 370. The performance evaluation of civil servants will be tied up with the performance of the organization which they work. The legal provisions related to the terms and condi tions of civil service will be amended to fully align with the performance evaluation of civil servants. 371. Contributory pension system will be implemented. The legislati on of this type will be tabled in the Legislature-Parliament in the coming Fiscal Year. 372. The service of the Civil Hospital will be extended in all the provinces in collaboration with government hospitals. 36 373. Comprehensive health facility plan will be implemented through the Employment Provident Fund for the support of treatment of contributor staffs in the government service. 374. I have increased the existing salary of civil servants by 25 percent to deliver effective service with high morale. I have made arrangements to increase in annual grade equal to salary of one day keeping the dearness allowance provided earlier as the same. Implementation of Budget 375. The large projects and important programs will be monitored by Honorable Prime Minister. A special monitoring desk will be set up to directly involve the Mi nister related to such projects, Finance Minister, Vice-Chairman of National Planning Commission and Sectoral Secretaries. I believe that this will ensure discipline and achieving result in the implementation of the budget. 376. It has been a great challenge for economic development that the allocated capital budget could not be spent. Therefore, a system will be developed to ensure the completion of work in stipulated time and cost, maintain quality and accountability towards decision maker and construction agency. 377. Authority will be given to the concerned implementing units in accor dance with the existing legal provisions to spend. The organisations that delay in providing authority abided by law will be subject to departmental actions. 378. I have made provisions of sufficient resources for the programs a ffirmed in this budget. Additional resources will be provided to the programs and projects by reallocating the budget from the programs that have no spending. 379. The reallocation procedures will be made easier by amending F inancial Procedure Act. Arrangements will be made for not to proceed to the Ministry of Finance for tiny reallocations. 380. Industrial area, project area, highway and public organization wi ll be declared as shut down and strike restricted areas. The compensation will be assured from the sponsors that deny this provision and call for shut-down, strike, restrict in supply and traffic and obstruct the functioning of industrial enterprises and projects. 381. Implementation of the programs announced in this budget will be carried out with the preparation of implementation plan from the very first day of the Fiscal Year. The implementation process will be facilitated by effective and regular monitoring. 382. An expert committee will be formed in the Ministry of Fina nce for regular study and research on budget preparation, implementation, monitoring and review of the exis ting revenue rates and procedures. I believe that this will facilitate the accurate projection of budget system and revenue. 383. The high level committee for Infrastructure Project Monitoring a nd Instructions, which was set up for facilitation of procedural issues taking long time due to lack of coordination, will be made effective. 37 384. Third party evaluation system of cost estimate of selected p rojects will be initiated. Similarly, supervision system of large projects selected from distingui shed and experienced firms will be initiated. 385. All the activities will be presented in a package to ensure no cost and time run for the projects. Only the projects with sufficient study that completed pre-feas ibility will be carried out for contract process. Approval to proceed for multi-year contract will be given to the projects which fulfill certain standards. 386. Amendment legislation of Public Procurement Act will be approve d in this session of the Legislature-Parliament. 387. The posts of necessary technical manpower for projects will be approved in a one short at the beginning. Those with merits will be appointed for the whole per iod of project through a short process based on competition. 388. Heavy equipment leasing company will be established in collaboration with private sector to provide necessary equipment for large projects. 389. Provisions will be made for maintenance by the same construction agency at least until five years of completion. 390. I have allocated separate budget to utilize indigenous knowledge, skil ls and experience and retain ownership for project preparation and development. Right Honorable Speaker, 391. Now, I would like to present the budget allocation and resource ma nagement plan for the implementation of the above-mentioned sectoral policies and programs: 392. I have appropriated Rs. 1048.92 billion for the implementation of poli cies and programs of Fiscal Year 2016/17. Out of the total appropriation, I have proposed Rs. 617.16 billion or 58.8 percent for current expenditure, Rs. 311.95 billion or 29.7 percent for capital expenditure and Rs. 119.81 billion or 11.4 percent for financing. The proposed allocation is 28.0 percent higher than the estimates and 49.6 percent higher than the revised estimates of the current Fiscal Year. 393. With respect to the financing of the proposed allocation for the coming Fiscal Year, Rs. 565.90 billion will be financed through revenue mobilization, Rs. 10.0 billion from principal repayment and Rs. 106.90 billion from foreign grants. With this financing, the budget de ficit will remain at Rs. 366.13 billion. To meet this deficit, Rs. 195.72 billion will be arranged from foreign loan. After financing from revenue and foreign aid, there will be a net deficit of Rs. 170.41 billion. Of the total deficit, Rs. 111.00 billion will be financed through domestic borrowing and Rs. 59.41 billion through current year's cash balance. 394. Now, I present the revenue mobilization for Fiscal Year 2016-17: 395. Mobilization of additional resources is essential for developm ent and prosperity. I have planned resources by keeping the tax rates constant so as to minimi ze the cost on economy already shrunk 38 by devastating earthquake and supply constraints. As the next Fiscal Year will be the beginning year of economic prosperity, tax system will be made simple and investment friendly. Voluntary tax compliance will be enhanced by ways of boosting up taxpaye rs’ morale and simplifying the tax systems, including through its digitization. Revenue leakage wi ll be controlled through policy and administrative reform. Capable and transparent tax system wi ll be developed by bringing informal economy into the tax net. Tax reform initiatives will be further broadened and intensified in line with the spirit of "Clean administration: Fair Business" for e nhanced mobilization of domestic resources. 396. Domestic revenue mobilization will be emphasized for reconstr uction of individual and public housing damaged by earthquake, and for consolidation of federal financ e that can sustain the implementation of the Constitution and Federalism. The economy shrunk by earthquake and supply constraints, will be revitalized through financial incentives sys tem. National agenda for tax reform will be prepared to make tax rates equitable. I have pre sented the revenue policies and programs for upcoming Fiscal Year so as to make tax system a basis for prosperous state building. 397. Objectives of revenue policy • Laying foundation of the economic prosperity through investment friendly tax policy. • Making the economy dynamic through implementing economic activity friendly tax system. • Adopting the policy of financial incentive to revitalize the bus iness damaged by earthquake and supply constraints. • Reducing dependency through growth in national production and export promotion. • Enhancing voluntary tax compliance through trade facilitation, insti tutional capacity development, and procedural reform. • Focusing on tax base protection and economic transparency for conso lidation of federal finance. • Increasing the contribution of non-tax revenue in revenue mobilization. Tax System Reform for Economic Prosperity 398. Single Tax Code Bill will be tabled in Legislature-Parliament to simplify and update the tax law and procedure. 399. A federal fiscal management bill for State, Provincial, and Loca l level, and a model of tax law for Province and Local level will be tabled in the Legislature-Par liament for the implementation of federalism. 400. Taxpayers will be categorized as best, normal and risky by determining the level of tax compliance based on tax participation, accounting and track record of tax audit. 39 401. Emphasis will be given to capacity development, application of latest technology and Research and Development for bringing electronic commerce into tax net. 402. Additional three hundred thousand taxpayers will be brought into tax net by allotting Permanent Account Number to all income earner and businessmen. 403. The provision of building database by receiving income tax return from those having income above Rs. 4 million will be implemented with high priority. 404. An arrangement has been made so as not to require audit for small and medium taxpayers having annual transaction of up to Rs. 10 million. Similarly, an arrangement of self-certification of income tax return by such taxpayers has been made. 405. Value Added Tax threshold has been increased from Rs. 1 million t o Rs. 2 million for service transaction and mixed transaction of goods and services. From this, I have expected increment on voluntary tax compliance. 406. Mandatory provision has been made to display the price of goods and se rvices including Value Added Tax in the sales places along with exhibition hall of industrial establishments, sales counter, shop, hotel and restaurant and bar. 407. I have made an arrangement of custom process simplification, harmonization and modernization by law and system reform for trade facilitation. 408. Custom clearance will be made more effective by way of employing risk indicators so as to protect both the social concerns and revenue. Besides, post clearance audit system will be strengthened. 409. Issuance of import and export identification number will be started to facilitate international trade. 410. Tripartite agreement among producer, authorized dealer, and authoriz ed purchaser will be made a basis for custom clearance of vehicles. 411. Revenue leakage will be controlled by implementing technology based tracking and tracing system on excise sticker imposed on alcohol, beer, wine, cigarette al ong with tobacco-based and alcoholbased goods. 412. A provision of imposing excise sticker on each bottle of beer instead of on cartoon of beer. 413. Legal and structural reform will be initiated so as to make non tax revenue collecting entities responsible and accountable through legal provision. Broadening Tax Base 414. I have increased the exemption limit of income tax, which was st atic since long time, from Rs. 250,000 to Rs. 350,000 for individual and from Rs. 300,000 to Rs. 400,000 for couples. 415. I have reduced after reviewing the income tax rate on transaction of small and medium taxpayers to minimize the tax burden and improve tax compliance. 416. I have increased the excise and custom duty on production and import of goods including alcohol, beer, and cigarettes so as not to impose additional cost on economy. 40 417. A total of 1000 interns of the universities selected on merit basi s will be mobilized in order to broaden tax base and billing enforcement. 418. I have arranged for door to door taxpayer education and special desk for facilitating large taxpayers in the areas where economic activities are growing. 419. Rate of non-tax revenue will be reviewed in every two years before the beginning of Fiscal Year. Tax incentive and privilege for National Production Growth and Employment Generation 420. I have proposed only 1 percent custom duty on machinery equipment and m ill machinery required for agriculture, irrigation, and livestock business. 421. I have made an arrangement to exempt from value added tax on the i nsurance premium of bird farming, fishery, horticulture and bee keeping to improve the c ontribution of agriculture to the economy. 422. I have arranged only 1 percent custom duty for the vehicle for transporting fish and meat and tanker transporting milk to promote livestock and dairy business. I have exe mpted by two third of custom duty on bullets transporting LP gas to make the cooking gas supply reliable and systematic. 423. I have arranged to impose only 1 percent of custom duty and provide ex emption from excise duty on import of all types of large electric vehicles to be used f or public transportation. Besides, I have arranged to impose 10 percent of custom duty and provide exemption fr om excise duty on electric vehicles of private use. 424. I have managed only 1 percent of custom duty on import of machiner y instruments for the battery recycling industry. 425. With a view to reducing cost of medical treatment and providing quali tative health services, I have arranged 1 percent of custom duty and exemption from value added tax on import of instruments by the health institutions recognized by the Government of Nepal for the treatment of cancer, heart and kidney related disease. In addition, I have provided such privileges on t he critical instruments required for diagnosis. 426. Press and electronic publication and transmission centre will b e allowed to file Value Added Tax returns on trimester basis. In addition, I have made a provision so as to levy 1 percent duty on import of newspaper by the media house and newspaper publishers. 427. I have made an arrangement for waiver of additional fee, intere st, fines and penalty imposed on delayed payment and delayed returns filing of Income Tax, Value Added Tax, Excise, Health Service Tax and Education Service Fees due to the unfavorable situation in the past. 428. I have made a provision to impose 1 percent of custom duty on goods impor ted by foreign aided projects and by those entitled to enjoy exemption under the decision of the Government of Nepal. 41 429. The Government has paid due attention to the unfavorable situation face d by business community during the beginning of the current Fiscal Year. For this, I have made a provision not to include the expenses paid in foreign country for detention, demurrage and parking fees into custom valuation and allow such expenses as deduction for the Income Tax purpose. Utilization of Information Technology for the Modernization of Tax System 430. Development of Electronic Tax system will be emphasized f or safe and reliable service delivery. Furthermore, integrated information technology will be developed s o as to enable third party verification of the transaction. 431. I have arranged for a special service desk in the Departme nts to ensure Tax Administration system operational for 365 days and 24 hours. 432. Infrastructure for electronic payment of tax will be developed by 2018. System of electronic payment of Income Tax, Value Added Tax and Excise Duty will be started next year. 433. Web based ASYCUDA system for customs clearance will be expanded to 10 main Customs Offices. 434. Coordination and capacity enhancement of all Government Offices related to the export and import will be enhanced for the facilitation of international trade. For this purpose, infrastructure of Nepal National Single Window System will be developed and operated by 2020. 435. Provision of electronic billing will be made mandatory for departmental stores and taxpayers linked with business chain. 436. Electronic Information System will be used for tracking of internal transportation of goods in order to control of illicit trade. Control of Tax Evasion for Fairness and Neutrality of Tax System 437. I have allocated Rs. 1 billion to purchase under invoiced goods from related Custom, Revenue Investigation and Inland Revenue Offices. I hope this will substantially help to solve the problem of under invoicing. 438. The financial statement and tax amount will be used as a refe rence for credit mobilization through bank and financial institutions. I believe, this will promote fair business. 439. I have proposed legal reform for making all the parties and consultants responsible for tax planning and evasion. In addition, I have proposed program to promote research based investigation to control tax evasion. 440. Special unit will be established in Inland Revenue Department to control tax planning and tax evasion for the protection of tax base. 441. Information will be collected through the joint effort of citi zen and government to control the financial crime and revenue leakage. Strengthening Revenue Administration for Institutional Capacity Development 42 442. In order to reform the revenue administration, Central Revenue Board will be formed and revenue administration will be restructured in the coming Fiscal Year. 443. The construction of Integrated Custom Check Post will be completed and operated in Sirsiya of Birgunj for Modernization of Customs. Similarly, the infrastruct ure for integrated Custom Check Post will be developed in Biratnagar, Bhairahawa and Nepalgunjg . I have arranged for installation of modern X-ray machine in major custom offices for the facilitation of clearance of passengers and goods. 444. The feasibility study of Single Revenue Account will be carried out for the simplification of revenue collection. The Revenue Management Information System currently op erationalized in 15 districts will be extended to 35 additional districts and Nepali missions based in foreign country. 445. Revenue Administration Training Centre will be developed as an a cademic institution for capacity development and thematic excellence. Honorable Speaker, 446. Because of the accelerated reconstruction works and increasing p ublic expenditure and the expansion of economic activities from the Government’s programs, the growth rate of 6.5 percent is expected to be achieved in the Fiscal Year 2016-17. I have anticip ated this year as the point of departure for economic prosperity. 447. Inflation rate will be contained within 7.5 percent through the use of fiscal, monetary and administrative measures. Nepal Rastra Bank will introduce the monetary policy soon in order to support the implementation of this budget. 448. I have presented actual income and expenditure of Fiscal Year 2014 -15, revised estimate of Fiscal Year 2015-16 and estimated income and expenditure of Fiscal Year 2016-17 in the Annexes. I have presented technical assistance book separately containing the l ist of technical assistances/programs being provided by the development partners and INGOs. Right Honorable Speaker, 449. With the implementation of the constitution, we have now entered into the phase of prosperity and struggle against hunger, disease, poverty, backwardness and socio-economic discrimination. In this effort, government, private sector, cooperatives and community sec tor and other development stakeholders should be aligned together. Previous working style, speed and efforts are not adequate for achieving our common goal of socialism oriented nation building ba sed on democratic values. Likewise, huge investment is required for realizing the high economic growth. I believe that this budget will inspire high economic growth and sustainable developme nt through the allocation of significant amount of budget in reconstruction, agriculture, physical infrastructure, energy and social sector. After the full implementation of this budget thereby expanding economic activities, it is expected to add minimum 400,000 employment opportunities in the next ye ar. I am confident that significant progress will be achieved in human security and social indicators will be improved after the budget implementation. 43 450. With the implementation of this budget, the country will enter into a new phase of prosperity along with the just and social development. I believe that the fundamental rights guaranteed by the constitution will gradually be enjoyed by the Nepali people. I believe that this budget will make the economy dynamic which was shrunk due to disruptions in the supply syst em before the postearthquake reconstruction work started. It will support to promote private sector investment, establish cooperative sector as the partner of development a nd establish the foundation for the country’s fast and sustainable development. 451. I would like to express my gratitude to the Rt. Hon. President, Rt. Hon. Vice President, Rt. Hon. Chief Justice, Rt. Hon. Speaker, Hon. Ministers, Heads and Members of the Constitutional Bodies, and prominent leaders of major political parties for their gui dance while formulating this budget. I would also like to thank representatives of the diplomatic missions and all development partners for their suggestions. I would like to express my gratitude to Hon. Member s of Legislature-Parliament for their suggestions. In addition, I would like to express my thanks to private sector organizations, civil society, social organizations, intellectuals, economists, civil servants and all sisters and brothers residing outside Nepal. 452. I would like to express my gratitude to all taxpayers, donor agenc ies, non-government and community organizations, cooperatives and general public. I also expect full cooperation from all in the implementation of this budget. Thank you! Annexes Revenue & Grant Less Expenditure Taxes Non Tax Revenue Cash Balanca of Last Year and Iregular Grants Compensation of employees Use of goods and services Interest and Services Subsidies Grants Social Security Other Expenditure Capital Expenditure 355,955,468 49,910,687 5,982,092 38,174,309 88,543,453 31,824,069 9,263,197 1,018,731 157,560,659 50,757,816 310,100 88,754,708 412,424,420 48,001,101 0 67,079,660 105,037,753 54,459,272 20,442,871 1,612,818 183,506,095 65,527,246 3,479,809 159,089,190 510,591,833 55,304,667 0 106,896,411 132,331,660 99,905,274 22,689,335 2,028,079 262,659,686 96,113,406 1,436,689 311,946,325 510,591,833 55,304,667 132,116,997 81,461,402 22,689,335 741,367 189,749,834 95,433,532 1,436,689 151,954,086 106,896,411 185,675 14,648,748 1,282,951 38,473,575 301,313 49,281,049 28,988 3,795,124 3,761 34,436,277 378,561 110,711,190 527,505,181 593,155,054 450,022,556 428,032,733 672,792,911 929,110,454 149,353,901 106,896,411 104,173,311 565,896,500 675,583,242 149,353,901Budget Surplus (-)/ Deficit -2,723,100109,686,742256,317,54365,649,873-21,989,823 Financing -47,594,825 Internal Loan Less Internal Loan Refund Domestic Share Investments Foreign Share Investments External Amortizations Less External Borrowing Domestic Amortization Less Domestic Borrowing 28,338,969 2,081,582 8,524,012 1,986,415 17,027,869 25,531,280 47,429,985 42,367,578 30,060,571 9,000,000 13,290,339 198,997 22,363,357 58,611,469 42,103,380 88,000,000 53,644,620 10,000,000 21,690,502 1,000,000 25,467,118 195,715,737 18,008,660 111,000,000 12,570,184 10,000,000 14,305,002 375,000 25,467,118 18,008,660 111,000,000 1,025,100 1,698,000 40,049,336 5,687,500 625,000 195,715,737 Under/Over(-) 11,336,987 18,055,048 59,412,706 59,412,706 0 0 33,326,810 -196,904,837 -149,353,9012,723,100-50,274,036 Budget Summary Fiscal Year 2016/17 (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 1 Net Internal Loan Net Investment External Net Borrowing Domestic Net Borrowing 26,257,387 10,510,427 -8,503,411 5,062,407 21,060,571 13,489,336 -36,248,112 -45,896,620 43,644,620 22,690,502 -170,248,619 -92,991,340 2,570,184 14,680,002 25,467,118 -92,991,340 1,025,100 1,698,000 40,049,336 6,312,500 -195,715,737 Revenue Grant Recurrent Capital 411,848,247 38,174,309 339,278,025 88,754,708 460,425,521 67,079,660 434,065,864 159,089,190 565,896,500 106,896,411 617,164,129 311,946,325 565,896,500 523,629,156 151,954,086 106,896,411 54,892,262 49,281,049 38,642,711 110,711,190 2015/162014/15 Actual Estimate GON Grant Loan 2016/17Heading Source Revised 1 Taxes Taxes on income, profits, and capital gains Taxes on payroll and workforce Taxes on property Taxes on goods and services Payable by individuals & Sole Traders Payable by entrerprizes and corporations Taxes on Investment and other income Social Security Taxes on payroll Recurrent taxes on immovable property Taxes on financial and capital transactions VAT Excise 22,557,542 52,033,696 11,574,147 2,925,848 21,874 9,377,538 112,521,794 53,538,191 Individual or Sole Traders Remuneration Tax Capital Gain Individuals Company Profit Tax Government Corporations Companies Company Profit Tax Public Limited Companies Company Profit Tax Private LimitedCcompanies Company Profit Tax Other Institutions Capital gain Entity Taxes on Rent & Lease Income Interest Dividend Other Investment Income Tax on gambling, lottery, souviner and grants Taxes on other income Social Security Taxes on payroll Annual Property Tax House and Land Registration VAT Production VAT Import VAT Goods, Sales & Distribution VAT Services & Contracts VAT Services, Tourism VAT Telephone, Insurance & Air Travel VAT Non Registered(Reverse Charge) Tobacco Alcohol Beer Excise on other produced items 8,536,314 11,360,269 2,660,959 4,500,171 20,618,865 22,278,665 4,589,203 46,792 2,656,904 6,117,080 2,094,985 13,347 97,242 594,589 2,925,848 21,874 9,377,538 12,852,621 72,984,599 9,181,755 6,532,345 1,751,256 7,135,506 2,083,712 7,163,084 12,690,198 6,855,409 4,334,199 10,626,628 13,215,418 3,057,059 5,740,280 25,931,673 26,969,579 5,287,696 35,823 3,209,580 8,030,342 2,622,083 16,841 98,005 643,993 3,425,858 32,103 11,650,670 15,314,827 86,221,705 11,145,272 8,356,366 2,033,512 8,416,835 2,431,528 8,835,352 13,489,142 7,932,481 5,329,358 12,423,889 15,450,516 3,574,093 6,711,123 30,317,446 31,530,891 6,181,994 41,881 3,752,410 9,580,100 3,065,551 19,689 114,580 752,910 4,005,267 38,693 14,042,397 19,085,851 105,391,626 14,161,869 10,368,345 2,401,451 10,439,756 2,871,482 11,433,998 16,929,832 10,367,764 6,293,639 12,220,623 15,197,731 3,515,618 6,601,323 29,821,424 31,015,016 6,080,851 41,196 3,691,017 9,234,893 3,015,396 19,367 112,705 740,592 3,939,737 36,918 13,398, 271 17,612,050 99,154,961 12,817,063 9,609,821 2,338,539 9,679,361 2,796,257 10,160,655 15,512,513 9,122,354 6,128,763 203,266 252,785 58,475 109,800 496,022 515,875 101,143 685 61,393 345,207 50,155 322 1,875 12,318 65,530 1,775 644,126 1,473,801 6,236,665 1,344,806 758,524 62,912 760,395 75,225 1,273,343 1,417,319 1,245,410 164,876 11111 11112 11113 11121 11122 11123 11124 11125 11131 11132 11133 11134 11135 11136 11211 11311 11341 11411 11412 11413 11414 11415 11416 11417 11421 11422 11423 11424 26,899,105 63,965,051 14,620,844 3,425,858 32,103 11,650,670 133,920,045 63,361,885 31,448,498 74,783,335 17,285,240 4,005,267 38,693 14,042,397 164,720,380 80,942,627 30,933,972 73,559,810 16,813,970 3,939,737 36,918 13,398,271 154,008,052 72,866,170 514,526 1,223,525 471,270 65,530 1,775 644,126 10,712,328 8,076,457 2,209,321 65, 530 645,901 26,848,419 121,307,752 3,939,737 13,435,189 241,445,546 123,517,073 4,005,267 14,081,090 268,293,965 105,485,000 3,425,858 11,682,773 209,952,648 86,165,385 2,925,848 9,399,412 180,025,209 412,424,420355,955,468 510,591,833 36,303,747474,288,086 Receipts of Revenue and Grants Estimate (Rs. in '000 ) Annex-2 Heading Actual Estimate Existing Measures New Measures 2015/162014/15 2016/17 Revised Estimate 2 Grants Taxes on international trade and transactions Other taxes Grants from foreign governments Grants from international organizations Taxes on specific services Taxes on use of goods and on permission to use goods Customs and other import duties Taxes on exports Other taxes on international trade and transactions Registration Fee Ownership Certificate Charge Recurrent Grant Capital Grant 1,031,883 12,933,341 70,526,675 314,556 3,999,996 1,184,996 1,413,391 7,110,879 6,227,876 Import Duties Foreign Employment Services Health Services Education ServicesEducation Institute Education ServicesAboard Study Vehicle Tax Taxes on the use of infrastructure Road Maintenance and Improvement Duty Road Construction and Maintenance Duty Infrastructure Tax Import duties Indian Excise Refund Fees Local Development Fees Export duty Export Service Charge Agriculture service charge on imports Other Income related to Customs Firm Registration Fee Agency Registeration Fee Driving Licence & Vehicle Ownership Certificate Charge Fire Arms Registration Recurrent Grant Capital Grant 22,495,301 2,467 561,661 307,538 160,217 6,315,416 1,010,052 1,983,687 3,624,186 70,525,277 257 1,141 310,647 3,909 3,377,478 622,518 1,144,028 40,968 1,402,391 11,000 7,110,879 6,227,876 27,775,552 1,471 812,199 409,843 211,131 6,256,500 882,341 1,326,185 2,771,048 74,651,950 480 960 797,282 6,687 3,174,352 495,487 1,362,726 53,921 1,323,512 10,784 13,999,770 13,331,613 35,917,394 1,772 968,943 499,124 257,124 7,540,876 1,063,474 1,598,433 3,339,906 7,361,306 91,871,249 591 1,182 981,184 8,229 3,906,551 609,777 1,642,476 64,990 1,595,211 12,998 21,067,994 14,921,163 31,941,885 1,691 934,028 471,320 242,801 7,194,975 1,014,692 1,525,113 3,186,704 85,849,742 552 1,105 916,874 7,690 3,650,504 569,810 1,567,135 62,009 1,522,039 12,402 21,067,994 14,921,163 3,975,509 81 34,915 27,804 14,323 345,901 48,782 73,320 153,202 7,361,306 6,021,507 39 77 64,310 539 256, 047 39,967 75,341 2,981 73,172 596 11425 11441 11442 11443 11444 11451 11452 11453 11454 11455 11511 11512 11513 11521 11522 11561 11562 11611 11612 11621 11622 13111 13121 1,434,644 11,236,074 74,653,390 803,969 3,669,839 1,416,647 1,334,296 13,999,770 13,331,613 1,726,963 20,903,995 91,873,022 989,413 4,516,328 1,707,466 1,608,209 21,067,994 14,921,163 1,649,840 12,921,484 85,851,399 924,564 4,220,314 1,629,144 1,534,441 21,067,994 14,921,163 77,123 7,982,511 6,021,623 64,849 296,014 78,322 73,768 6,382,486 152,090 90,996,277 3,163,585 35,989,157 59,351,135 97,378,763 3,315,675 35,989,157 59,351,135 79,127,198 2,750,943 27,331,383 31,235,990 74,841,227 2,598,387 13,338,755 18,449,597 67,079,66038,174,309 106,896,411 106,896,411 Heading Actual Estimate Existing Measures New Measures 2015/162014/15 2016/17 3 Non Tax Revenue Other Grants from international organizations Property Income Sales of Goods and Services Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Interest Dividends Rent & Royalty Sales of Goods 13,581,913 4,867,684 5,673,344 712,613 1,930,007 13,731,716 7,046,969 7,295,213 Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Capital Grant Capital Grant Interest from financial institutions Interest from commercial institutions Interest from industrial institutions Interest from service oriented institutions Interest from other institutions Dividend from Financial Institutions Dividend from Commercial Institutions Dividend from Industrial Institution Dividend from Service Oriented Or ganization Dividend from Other Institutions Rent on Lease of Government Property Royalty on Casino Operations. Royalty from Mine Extraction Income & Royalty from Water Resources SectorHydro Power Projects Royalty and Other Income from the Sales of Forest Products Other Royalty Sales of agriculture product Sale of Government Property Sales of other items Telephone Services Fee Charge for the use of Telephone Services Water Connection & Supply 13,581,913 4,867,684 5,673,344 712,613 183,036 700,795 78 1,039,891 6,207 7,250,162 17 24,141 6,450,299 7,097 414,959 206,320 97,250 1,302,328 1,221,495 3,804,617 143,942 285,047 105,390 5,594,141 1,163,937 745 18,124,773 13,111,217 8,083,728 428,559 219,596 1,762 814 933,217 21,458 6,730,848 1,170 29,868 6,359,331 5,732 367,303 148,647 68,765 1,019,865 1,250,202 4,426,657 128,070 175,853 110,097 5,721,688 1,187,047 727 25,404,326 33,946,809 8,419,942 3,136,177 253,008 2,030 938 1,075,210 24,723 7,754,975 1,349 34,412 7,326,930 6,604 423,190 171,264 79,228 1,175,042 1,440,425 5,100,191 147,556 202,609 126,849 6,592,266 1,367,661 838 25,404,326 33,946,809 8,419,942 3,136,177 252,535 2,026 936 1,073,200 24,677 7,740,475 1,346 34,348 7,313,231 6,592 422,399 170,944 79,080 1,172,845 1,437,732 5,090,655 147,280 202,230 126,612 6,579,940 1,365,104 836 473 4 2 2, 010 46 14,500 3 64 13,699 12 791 320 148 2,197 2,693 9,536 276 379 237 12,326 2,557 2 13211 13221 13311 13321 14111 14112 14113 14114 14115 14121 14122 14123 14124 14125 14151 14152 14153 14154 14155 14156 14211 14212 14213 14214 14215 14216 18,124,773 13,111,217 8,083,728 428,559 1,176,847 13,126,949 7,281,439 7,325,355 25,404,326 33,946,809 8,419,942 3,136,177 1,355,909 15,124,270 8,389,340 8,439,937 25,404,326 33,946,809 8,419,942 3,136,177 1,353,374 15,095,992 8,373,655 8,424,155 2,535 28,278 15,685 15,782 46,498 28,102 11,556,119 24,823,021 15,001,602 11,556,119 24,869,519 15,029,704 8,512,287 21,585,235 13,044,875 6,385,957 22,708,692 12,230,584 48,001,10149,910,687 55,304,667 103,40355,201,264 Heading Actual Estimate Existing Measures New Measures 2015/162014/15 2016/17 4 Cash Balanca of Last Year and Iregular Penalties Fines & Forfeiture Voluntary Transfers other than Grants Miscellaneous Revenue Cash Balance of Last Year and Irregularities Administrative Fees Penalties Fines & Forfeiture Voluntary Transfers other than Grants Administrative Fee Immigration and Tourism Other Revenue Capital Revenue Cash Balance of Last Year and Irregularities 4,935,371 1,254,293 4,988 12,434,788 1,273,337 4,005 5,982,092 Fee for use of Water for Irri gation Charges for Consumption of Electricity Judicial Fee Duty Charges for use of Postal Services Income from Education Sector Exam Fee Transport Sector Export Import Licence Fee Other Administrative Fees Judicial Penalty, Fines and Forfeiture Administrative Penalty, Fines and Forfeiture Recurrent Capital Charges for Issuing Passports Visa Fees Permit for Mountainering and Trekking Other Fee from Tourists Pollution Control Fees Other Revenue Sales of Government Land and Building Cash Balance of Last Year Irregularities 1,483 528 703,764 298,477 603,703 446,257 225,541 78,592 2,579,037 118,995 1,135,298 2,795 2,193 9,391,559 2,486,972 552,376 3,881 856,179 417,158 4,005 1,174,184 4,807,908 1,162 711 571,414 325,130 519,574 364,492 236,752 77,698 3,624,460 115,893 398,594 690 674 8,622,895 2,358,798 726,288 6,096 857,243 278,101 5,719 1,338 820 658,357 374,599 598,629 419,951 272,774 89,520 4,175,937 133,527 459,242 795 776 9,934,905 2,717,699 836,796 7,023 987,676 320,416 6,589 1,335 818 657,126 373,899 597,510 419,166 272,264 89,353 4,168,129 133,277 458,383 794 775 9,916,330 2,712,618 835,231 7,010 985,829 319,817 6,577 3 2 1,231 700 1,119 785 510 167 7,808 250 859 1 1 18,575 5,081 1,565 13 1,847 599 12 14217 14218 14221 14222 14223 14224 14225 14226 14227 14311 14312 14411 14412 14511 14512 14513 14514 14521 14522 14531 15111 15112 5,719,520 514, 487 1,364 11,714,077 1,135,344 5,719 6,589,767 592,769 1,571 13,496,423 1,308,092 6,589 6,577,447 591,660 1,569 13,471,189 1,305,646 6,577 12,320 1,109 2 25,234 2,446 12 1,109 2 27,692 591,660 1,569 14,783,412 592,769 1,571 14,811,104 514,487 1,364 12,855,140 1,254,293 4,988 13,712,130 5,982,092 5,982,092 Total Revenue,Grants 36,407,150636,385,761672,792,911527,505,181450,022,556 Heading Actual Estimate Existing Measures New Measures 2015/162014/15 2016/17 5 2014/15 Actual 2015/16 Compensation of employees Use of goods and services Interest and Services Subsidies Grants Social Security Other Expenditure Capital Expenditure Wages and salaries Rent & Services Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets Offices Materials & Services Consultancy and Other Services fee Program Expenses Monitoring,Evaluation & Travelling Expenses Miscellaneous Recurrent Contingencies Interest on Foreign Foreign Interest on Internal Loan Subsidies to Public Corporations Subsidies to Private Enterprises Grant to Social Service Grant to Local body Grant to Social Service Social Security Scholarships Retirement Benefits property Related Expenditure Refunds Land Building Furniture & Fittings Vehicles Plant & Machinery Civil Works Capital Research & Consultancy Capital Contingencies 88,543,453 2,832,374 3,400,550 3,276,106 4,518,373 14,893,663 1,922,426 980,577 3,034,174 6,229,023 757,766 260,965 365,483 32,997,525 124,197,651 14,156,965 2,199,730 34,401,121 9 , 2 7 3 300,827 2 , 8 3 6 , 9 0 5 9,327,133 585,797 2,713,347 5,162,937 64,902,921 3,225,668 105,037,753 6,620,043 7,324,111 5,099,637 6,297,467 24,669,091 2,962,605 1,486,318 5,209,150 15,233,721 954,405 658,413 1,211,948 33,993,127 148,301,020 17,614,298 2,580,822 45,332,126 6 , 3 1 7 3,473,492 6,702,164 21,481,995 649,949 1 , 8 4 9 , 4 3 8 6,899,297 112,667,170 8,839,177 185,675 84,700 129,214 241,819 2 , 0 0 7 , 7 2 8 11,691,478 397,829 35,980 60,000 7 6 , 6 0 0 1 , 2 0 6 , 3 5 1 5 , 7 9 4 , 5 4 4 32,679,031 300,718 5 9 5 23,891,216 37,556 447,122 1 , 8 3 7 , 0 4 9 18,714,405 4 , 3 2 3 , 7 0 1 30,000 2 8 , 9 8 8 3 2 , 2 7 5 5 5 , 5 1 0 4 2 , 2 3 5 444,795 3,030,586 6 6 , 9 3 0 5 , 7 9 3 117,000 3 , 7 6 1 2 , 4 7 5 , 1 6 1 31,961,116 377,236 1 , 3 2 5 46,041,296 169,562 308,368 1,212,960 58,830,020 4,145,984 3 , 0 0 0 2 8 , 9 8 8 3 , 7 9 5 , 1 2 4 3 , 7 6 1 34,436,277 378,561 110 711 190 185,675 14,648,748 1 , 2 8 2 , 9 5 1 38,473,575 301,313 49,281,049 105,037,753 54,459,272 20,442,871 1,612,818 183,506,095 65,527,246 3,479,809 159,089,190 88,543,453 31,824,069 9,263,197 1,018,731 157,560,659 50,757,816 310,100 88,754,708 428,032,733 593,155,054 149,353,901Total Estimate GON Grant Loan Heading 2016/17 (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 3Expenditure Estimates 2016/17 Source Fiscal Year Revised 132331660 4619150 4902278 5491965 9219746 39487298 3626483 1164998 31393356 5360894 17328441 707217 1320862 1412337 49784962 211462387 35637115 2455750 58020541 6689 1430000 10249843 89203844 1338541 3054727 10831658 180198999 15769569 1299144 132331660 99905274 22689335 2028079 262659686 96113406 1436689 311946325 929110454 132116997 81461402 22689335 741367 189749834 95433532 1436689 151954086 132116997 4502175 4717554 5207911 6767223 24765234 3161724 1123225 31216356 5360894 17328441 630617 110750 1412337 41515257 146822240 35637115 1777796 58018621 6689 1430000 10249843 19271332 1131423 2299237 7781649 102654574 7299884 1266144 675583242 104173311 6 2015/16 Fiscal Policy (L-R) Liquidity Net Internal Loan Net Investment External Net Borrowing Domestic Net Borrowing Internal Loan Internal Loan Refund Domestic Share Investments Foreign Share Investments External Amortizations External Borrowing Domestic Amortization Domestic Borrowing 28,338,969 -2,081,582 8,524,012 1,986,415 17,027,869 -25,531,280 47,429,985 -42,367,578 30,060,571 -9,000,000 13,290,339 198,997 22,363,357 -58,611,469 42,103,380 -88,000,000 53,644,620 -10,000,000 21,690,502 1,000,000 25,467,118 -195,715,737 18,008,660 -111,000,000 12,570,184 -10,000,000 14,305,002 375,000 25,467,118 18,008,660 -111,000,000 1,025,100 1,698,000 40,049,336 5,687,500 625,000 -195,715,737 40,049,336 6,312,500 -195,715,737 1,025,100 1,698,000 2,570,184 14,680,002 25,467,118 -92,991,340 43,644,620 22,690,502 -170,248,619 -92,991,340 21,060,571 13,489,336 -36,248,112 -45,896,620 26,257,387 10,510,427 -8,503,411 5,062,407 34,549,907 -82,144,732 36,767,814 -3,441,004 66,335,122 -263,239,959 46,361,836 -195,715,737 2,723,10017,250,186 -67,524,222 -149,353,901 Total Financing 2,723,100-50,274,036-196,904,837-47,594,82533,326,810 2014/15 Actual Estimate GON Grant Loan Heading 2016/17 Financing Economic Overview (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 4 2016/17 Source Fiscal Year Revised 7 2015/16 GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICE DEFENCE PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY ECONOMIC AFFAIRS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES HEALTH Executive and legislative organs, financial and fiscal affairs, external affairs Foreign economic aid General services Basic research R General public services General public services n.e.c. Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of government Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services Fire-protection services Law courts Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting Fuel and energy Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport Communication Other industries R Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. Waste mana gement Waste water management R Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. Housing development Community development Water supply Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services Hospital services Public health services R Health Health n.e.c. 2014/15 Actual Estimate GON Gran t Loan Fiscal Year 2016/17 Per. of Total Functional Expenditure Estimates (Including Financing) (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 5 2016/17 Source Heading Revised 174124869 32606987 33968972 138652399 7542448 16776734 29468260 83236504 0 13055487 0 12697 4467847 56631883 16720451 32588313 0 18674 23657178 11684 3757900 1177019 5365191 9589676 47103891 26902146 1868280 43572754 4097615 3679989 1456959 381089 2429255 1043635 805000 3264558 3420193 300586 12398091 657864 746415 1842618 11661358 12809832 2408037 0 226763575 32501145 38351215 219563633 9910369 24286796 37157690 129602099 120853 15594752 0 11927 6243220 58181393 17009331 32315398 154931 30816 25881027 7087 4710055 1096622 6656424 13217852 58527694 35912841 2393275 61057426 4114074 11827999 32227928 284544 3040160 1260928 1006460 4602821 5736276 2826533 14377115 1346872 552823 5364737 11729746 15351892 4158492 0 169574375 217154 20110669 48236 10201 11874601 36337101 33245624 35889680 103079 52202 28301281 6898 5180512 1187895 6943933 96978932 83504514 54666153 2872885 104578280 4439582 19603347 57929404 426165 5264560 1064108 3074933 5666388 20072177 5143771 25118516 1341668 678655 5385882 15721381 19356174 6755045 530000 271417961 36044961 41620519 424999262 15069989 51676132 48427137 26 3 4 41 1 5 5 256442975 36044961 38406154 197432043 5272637 26726130 38664480 158856595 41153 16167714 48236 10201 11744601 36337101 33237374 35889680 103079 52202 26103436 6898 5180512 1187895 5927413 18486702 66083403 22278788 1354630 68010713 4413055 12029618 4657969 117165 1280101 1064108 971457 1956971 10099781 2016278 13268403 1341668 516205 1908998 15418707 14710667 5579903 530000 6576108 0 3214365 73863978 1946191 5414111 9762657 4717780 0 1850078 0 0 0 0 8250 0 0 0 2197845 0 0 0 1016520 37664106 6539396 4498135 0 9401382 26527 2074329 13651103 9000 177900 0 0 1768291 919771 3127493 1366847 0 162450 3476884 302674 4645507 1175142 0 8398878 0 0 153703241 7851161 19535891 0 6000000 176001 2092877 0 0 130000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 40828124 10881715 27889230 1518255 27166185 0 5499400 39620332 300000 3806559 0 2103476 1941126 9052625 0 10483266 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 8 2015/16 RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION EDUCATION SOCIAL PROTECTION Recreational and sporting services Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R Social protection Social protection n.e.c. Total 2014/15 Actual Estimate GON Gran t Loan Per. of Total 2016/17 Source Heading Revised 3350840 79840816 15007658 1437891 1571415 341534 28363982 14249103 20423522 15503038 1301171 774938 12601224 66241 1565255 531339983 4342114 87989875 20305286 1859850 2004139 478125 28225906 13545957 27891321 16880814 1445877 2651950 15314405 180126 2158805 1048921354701171698 2400428 3465100 370627 47837712 12398971 29351116 24778012 1464838 1642852 32986736 391957 2577044 6236155 115830649 37598589 1 11 4 746309206 106896411 195715737 6154163 105495347 35670316 2388428 3465100 300635 47397641 12398971 20944907 24748012 5816 287172 32986736 391957 2004451 81992 4758932 1278077 12000 0 69992 440071 0 4165200 30000 123661 705484 0 0 572593 0 5576370 650196 0 0 0 0 0 4241009 0 1335361 650196 0 0 0 9 Recurrent 617,164,12911,384,048 21100 22100 22200 22300 22400 22500 Wages and salaries Rent & Services Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets Offices Materials & Services Consultancy and Other Services fee Program Expenses 132,331,660 4,619,150 4,902,278 5,491,965 9,219,746 39,487,298 144,260 10,151 23,264 56,865 1,050,450 5,311,937 21111 21112 21113 21114 21119 21121 21122 21123 22111 22112 22121 22122 22211 22212 22213 22311 22312 22313 22314 22321 22411 22412 22511 22512 22521 22522 Salary Local Allowances Dearness Allowance Field Allowance Other Allowance Clothing Fooding Medical Expense Water and Electricity Communication House Rent Other Rent Fuel and Oil Vehicles Operation & Maintenance Insurance General Office Expenses Feedds for Animals & Birds Books and Materials Fuel and Oil For Administrative Purposes Repair and Maintenance of Public Property Consultancy and Services Expenses Other Services fee Employee Training Skill Development and Awareness Training Program Production Materials/Services Program Expenses 106,382,675 1,650,263 3,597,301 282,590 4,166,330 3,349,333 12,214,311 688,857 1,728,484 918,366 1,863,172 109,128 2,665,882 1,901,504 334,892 4,578,285 135,826 61,498 221,751 494,605 4,683,596 4,536,150 1,275,034 5,245,472 1,046,325 25, 819,380 143,260 0 0 0 1,000 0 0 0 2,076 3,371 4,704 0 11,901 6,763 4,600 56,365 0 500 0 0 1,033,515 16,935 45,093 883,621 0 2,273,055 Total Cash Direct Payment and Commodity Grant 605,780,081 132,187,400 4,608,999 4,879,014 5,435,100 8,169,296 34,175,361 106,239,415 1,650,263 3,597,301 282,590 4,165,330 3,349,333 12,214,311 688,857 1,726,408 914,995 1,858,468 109,128 2,653,981 1,894,741 330,292 4,521,920 135,826 60,998 221,751 494,605 3,650,081 4,519,215 1,229,941 4,361,851 1,046,325 23,546,325 Cash Total 523,629,156 82,150,925 132,116,997 4,502,175 4,717,554 5,207,911 6,767,223 24,765,234 70,403 106,824 161,460 227,189 1,402,073 9,410,127 106,204,690 1,649,791 3,596,847 262,515 4,151,690 3,349,128 12,214,311 688,025 1,714,681 880,695 1,809,048 97,751 2,570,322 1,824,678 322,554 4,326,336 135,826 57,506 217,120 471,123 2,488,598 4,278,625 946,531 2,725,148 1, 009,638 16,773,024 34,725 472 454 20,075 13,640 205 0 832 11,727 34,300 49,420 11,377 83,659 70,063 7,738 195,584 0 3,492 4,631 23,482 1,161,483 240,590 283,410 1,636,703 36,687 6,773,301 GoN Foreign Cash Economic Heads and Expenditure Line Items Cash and Non Cash Expenditure by Economic Heads and Line Items Fiscal Year -2016/17 A n n e x 6 (Rs. in '000) 10 22600 22700 22900 24100 24200 25100 25200 26200 26300 26400 Monitoring,Evaluation & Travelling Expenses Miscellaneous Recurrent Contingencies Interest on Foreign Foreign Interest on Internal Loan Subsidies to Public Corporations Subsidies to Private Enterprises Grant to Social Service Grant to Local body Grant to Social Service 3,626,483 1,164,998 31,393,356 5,360,894 17,328,441 707,217 1,320,862 1,412,337 49,784,962 211,462,387 60,823 8,752 60,000 0 0 0 266,451 0 947,208 3,437,203 22529 22531 22611 22612 22613 22614 22711 22911 24111 24211 25111 25112 25211 25212 26211 26311 26312 26321 26322 26411 26412 26413 Other Program Expenses Medicine Purchases Monitoring & Evaluation Expenses Travelling Expenses Travelling Expenses of VIPs & Delegations Other Travelling Expenses Miscellaneous Recurrent Contingencies Interest on Foreign Loan Interest on Internal Loan Operating Subsidy Non-Financial Corporations Capital Subsidy Non-Financial Corporations Operating Subsidies to Non-Financial Private Enterprises Capital Subsidies to Non-Financial Private Enterprises International Membership Fee& Assistance Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies Conditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies Unconditional Capital Grant to Local Bodies Conditional Capital Grant to Local Bodies Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Other Institutions & Individuals 490,663 5,610,424 2,000,515 1,498,932 65,000 62,036 1,164,998 31,393,356 5,360,894 17,328,441 448,037 259,180 281,099 1,039,763 1,412,337 1,932,692 12,043,754 25,216,051 10,592,465 3,885,313 97,551,977 8,979,730 8,489 2,101,679 42,605 18,218 0 0 8,752 60,000 0 0 0 0 0 266,451 0 456 663,425 0 283,327 448,850 548,161 450,971 Total Cash Direct Payment and Commodity Grant 3,565,660 1,156,246 31,333,356 5,360,894 17,328,441 707,217 1,054,411 1,412,337 48,837,754 208,025,184 482,174 3,508,745 1,957,910 1,480,714 65,000 62,036 1,156,246 31,333,356 5,360,894 17,328,441 448,037 259,180 281,099 773,312 1,412,337 1,932,236 11,380,329 25,216,051 10,309,138 3,436,463 97,003,816 8,528,759 Cash Total 3,161,724 1,123,225 31,216,356 5,360,894 17,328,441 630,617 110,750 1,412,337 41,515,257 146,822,240 403,936 33,021 117,000 0 0 76,600 943,661 0 7,322,497 61,202,944 480,898 2,829,995 1,715,187 1,319,501 65, 000 62,036 1,123,225 31,216,356 5,360,894 17,328,441 448,037 182,580 6,338 104,412 1,412,337 1,837,236 6,261,825 25,216,051 8,200,145 3,399,788 89,269,925 7,752,231 1,276 678,750 242,723 161,213 0 0 33,021 117,000 0 0 0 76,600 274,761 668,900 0 95,000 5,118,504 0 2,108,993 36,675 7,733,891 776,528 GoN Foreign Cash Economic Heads and Expenditure Line Items 11 Capital 311,946,32553,149,995 27100 27200 27300 28100 28200 29100 29200 29300 29400 29500 Social Security Scholarships Retirement Benefits property Related Expenditure Refunds Land Building Furniture & Fittings Vehicles Plant & Machinery 35,637,115 2,455,750 58,020,541 6,689 1,430,000 10,249,843 89,203,844 1,338,541 3,054,727 10,831,658 0 6,684 0 0 0 0 30,356,660 1,030 137,490 1,411,862 26421 26422 26423 27111 27112 27211 27311 27312 27313 27314 27315 28141 28212 28213 29111 29211 29221 29231 29311 29411 Unconditional Capital Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Unconditional Capital Grant to Other Institutions & Individuals Conditional Social Security Subsidy Other Unconditional Social Assistance Scholarships Pensions and Disability Allowance Gratuity Accumulated Leave Medical Facility Deceased Staff Assistance Land Rent Judicial Refund Other Refund Land Acquisition Building Purchase Building Construction Capital Formation Building Furniture & Fixtures Vehicles 14,597,906 13,793,909 72,653,552 34,635,985 1,001,130 2,455,750 42,268,425 1,143,200 6,785,717 7,673,199 150,000 6,689 70,000 1,360,000 10,249,843 2,358,839 86,093,709 751,296 1,338,541 3,054,727 0 21,860 1,967,361 0 0 6,684 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 30,356,660 0 1,030 137,490 Total Cash Direct Payment and Commodity Grant 258,796,330 35,637,115 2,449,066 58,020,541 6,689 1,430,000 10,249,843 58,847,184 1,337,511 2,917,237 9,419,796 14,597,906 13,772,049 70,686,191 34,635,985 1,001,130 2,449,066 42,268,425 1,143,200 6,785,717 7,673,199 150,000 6,689 70,000 1,360,000 10,249,843 2,358,839 55,737,049 751,296 1,337,511 2,917,237 Cash Total 151,954,086 106,842,244 35,637,115 1,777,796 58,018,621 6,689 1,430,000 10,249,843 19,271,332 1,131,423 2,299,237 7,781,649 0 671,270 1,920 0 0 0 39,575,852 206,088 618,000 1,638,147 12,597,906 10, 177,822 23,624,568 34,635,985 1,001,130 1,777,796 42,268,425 1,141,320 6,785,677 7,673,199 150,000 6,689 70,000 1,360,000 10,249,843 2,358,839 16,325,782 586,711 1,131,423 2,299,237 2,000,000 3,594,227 47,061,623 0 0 671,270 0 1,880 40 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 39,411,267 164,585 206,088 618,000 GoN Foreign Cash Economic Heads and Expenditure Line Items 12 1,048,921,354Grand Total 96,071,143 Finance 119,810,90031,537,100 29600 29700 29800 31100 31200 32100 32200 Civil Works Capital Research & Consultancy Capital Contingencies Net Internal Loan Net Investment External Net Borrowing Domestic Net Borrowing 180,198,999 15,769,569 1,299,144 53,644,620 22,690,502 25,467,118 18,008,660 17,190,089 4,052,864 0 29,839,100 1,698,000 0 0 29511 29611 29621 29711 29712 29811 31111 31211 31221 32111 32211 Plant & Machinery Civil Works Construction Capital Formation Capital Research & Consultancy Software Devloment and Purchase Capital Contingencies Internal Loan to Corporations Share InvestmentsCorporations Foreign Share Investments External Amortization Domestic Amortization 10,831,658 169,626,653 10,572,346 14,416,852 1,352,717 1,299,144 53,644,620 21,690,502 1,000,000 25,467,118 18,008,660 1,411,862 16,991,839 198,250 3,621,919 430,945 0 29,839,100 1,698,000 0 0 0 Total Cash Direct Payment and Commodity Grant 952,850,211 88,273,800 163,008,910 11,716,705 1,299,144 23,805,520 20,992,502 25,467,118 18,008,660 9,419,796 152,634,814 10,374,096 10,794,933 921,772 1,299,144 23,805,520 19,992,502 1,000,000 25,467,118 18,008,660 Cash Total 746,309,206 206,541,005 70,725,964 17,547,836 102,654,574 7,299,884 1,266,144 12,570,184 14,680,002 25,467,118 18,008,660 60, 354,336 4,416,821 33,000 11,235,336 6,312,500 0 0 7,781,649 95,798,753 6,855,821 6,908,676 391,208 1,266,144 12,570,184 14,305,002 375,000 25,467,118 18,008,660 1,638,147 56,836,061 3,518,275 3,886,257 530,564 33,000 11,235,336 5,687,500 625,000 0 0 GoN Foreign Cash Economic Heads and Expenditure Line Items 13 2015/16 Estimate Source Grant Loan Fiscal Year 2016/17 2014/15 Actual Head of State Constitutional Body Ministry President Deputy President Legislature Parliament Courts Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Public Service Commission Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Supply Ministry of Industry Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital 84,031 273,559 27,162 2 , 8 9 2 1,299,587 49,126 2,564,773 461,687 454,705 243,534 292,674 33,222 398,687 75,657 458,482 17,407 76,313 32,034 461,343 115,438 34,917 4 , 6 3 2 12,052,386 350,073 4,176,841 721,702 563,300 86,280 253,038 29,244 1 , 4 6 1 1,304,528 37,541 3,002,663 881,355 600,917 346,366 408,474 239,577 456,324 53,866 492,323 63,752 117,563 2 , 5 5 0 462,525 153,729 53,640 3 , 9 0 5 11,110,500 893,487 6,485,140 1,900,351 625,494 19,400 85,617 200,600 30,083 5 , 3 5 0 1,379,933 40,623 3,188,848 955,746 836,741 275,055 341,881 180,000 532,155 56,496 490,204 101,320 164,696 3 , 0 0 0 547,198 212,000 50,494 9 4 5 54,465,203 35,275,745 9,488,545 2,006,475 866,347 58,810 8 5 , 6 1 7 2 0 0 , 6 0 0 3 0 , 0 8 3 5 , 3 5 0 1,379,933 40,623 3,188,848 955,746 836,741 275,055 341,881 180,000 532,155 56,496 490,204 101,320 164,696 3,000 547,198 212,000 50,494 945 9,827,519 3,729,737 8,119,935 1,110,791 866,347 28,810 20,539,165 16,265,116 1,368,610 895,684 30,000 24,098,519 15,280,892 39,379,411 120,332 36,804,281 2,264,294 30,000 848,287 286,217 35,433 1,420,556 4,144,594 1,111,796 521,881 588,651 591,524 167,696 759,198 51,439 13,557,256 9,230,726 895,157 6,087,048 286,217 35,433 1,420,556 4,144,594 1,111,796 521,881 588,651 591,524 167,696 759,198 51,439 89,740,948 11,495,020 925,157 7,055,667 339,318 30,705 1,342,069 3,884,018 947, 283 648,051 510,190 556,075 120,113 616,254 57,545 12,003,987 8,385,491 644,894 3,898,511 357,590 30,054 1,348,713 3,026,460 698,239 325,896 474,344 475,889 108,347 576,781 39,549 12,402,459 4,898,543 563,300 1,849,074 370,023 8,681,598 452,376,620 387,644 7,074,218 369,750,210 321,650 9,357,335 720,419,247 106,853,90190,843,311 321,650 9,357,335 522,722,035 Administrative Expenditure Estimates (Including Financing) (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 7 2016/17 Heading GON Revised 14 2015/16 Estimate Source Grant Loan 2014/15 Actual Ministry of Energy Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Commerce Ministry of Population and environment Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Women, Children & Social Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Finance Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital 1,321,567 527,507 1,883,145 763,573 98,337 7 , 5 5 8 14,423,563 1,443,614 822,661 9,004,069 35,560,510 2,443,148 1,889,537 606,551 3,044,851 312,803 2,814,875 118,704 6,588,380 2,008,487 225,822 195,088 4,688,186 219,402 31,131 63,506 2,652,710 526,989 5,452,882 32,359,972 2,212,506 1,686,005 1,053,532 4,897,284 139,139 4 , 1 8 6 17,367,951 1,819,506 1,116,571 11,152,283 36,472,173 4,842,172 2,722,289 1,086,473 2,985,998 1,927,783 3,519,146 205,171 6,365,889 5,566,921 311,487 949,894 6,384,424 682,537 48,235 98,668 2,980,806 909,668 5,524,873 42,783,400 3,223,919 3,831,748 924,438 8,153,789 4,122,500 209,590 4 , 8 0 7 23,615,570 3,822,691 1,322,467 20,751,913 38,792,343 5,605,788 4,380,661 1,532,317 3,340,724 2,302,247 6,529,515 1,936,046 8,634,497 5,137,699 418,504 920,881 7,216,131 1,117,841 350,222 504,016 4,716,053 1,099,047 6,510,878 72,675,970 2,293,472 3,793,576 917,193 7,628,084 1,122,500 209,590 4,807 18,229,351 2,833,863 1,109,432 9,801,971 38,742,897 3,222,891 3,578,506 1,518,625 3,340,724 2,302,247 5,798,686 1,909,406 8,259,822 4,298,858 250,041 26,056 3,758,452 571,529 350,222 504,016 4,716,053 1,099,047 4,224,327 47,596,487 836,287 12,000 7,245 291,955 3,147,034 372,864 122,174 771,938 49,446 2,382,897 802,155 13,692 730,829 26,640 374,675 838,841 168,163 580,535 3,343,199 109,870 286,551 3,682,423 94,160 26,172 233,750 3,000,000 2,239,185 615,964 90,861 10,178,004 300 314, 290 114,480 436,442 2,000,000 21,397,060 3,233,750 2,855,149 10,268,865 314,590 550,922 23,397,060 299,200 3,519,898 894,112 2,432,343 815,847 757,469 1,213,516 748,698 3,453,069 3,968,974 368 095 9,667,777 214,397 21,063,214 10,911,403 41,965,788 5,097,131 5,642,971 7,708,092 12,558,680 276,097 4,329,981 854,238 5,815,100 51,820,814 2,052,560 13,200,727 214,397 27,438,261 22,074,380 44,398,131 5,912,978 5,642,971 8,465,561 13,772,196 1,339,385 8,333,972 854,238 5,815,100 79,186,848 2,420,655 5,950,816 143,325 19,187,457 12,268,854 41,314,345 3,808,762 4,913,781 3,724,317 11,932,810 1,261,381 7,066,961 146,903 3,890,474 48,308,273 1,995,278 2,646,718 105,895 15,867,177 9,826,730 38,003,658 2,496,088 3,357,654 2,933,579 8,596,867 420,910 4,907,588 94,637 3,179,699 37,812,854 1,562,279 2016/17 Heading GON Revised 15 2015/16 Estimate Source Grant Loan 2014/15 Actual MOF Financing & Debt Service Welfare Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Defence MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Education Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Labour and Employment National Planning Commission Secretariata MOF Policy Financing Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Finance 1,449,720 112,559 1,426,047 11,844 28,442,818 4,414,865 3,374,112 4,011,442 1,495,386 1,565,745 79,744,772 96,044 921,042 69,058 455,668 15,471 1,035,798 13,897,571 3,395,495 347,362 39,646,083 7,903,939 21,448,217 3,083,075 701,168 137,154 478,913 105,412 38,849,396 1,864,751 130,527 1,857,556 2 , 2 9 4 29,495,858 3,068,997 4,822,684 5,208,984 1,482,195 1,655,948 87,832,279 157,596 1,120,454 91,383 1,023,196 38,180 1,374,840 15,948,907 3,227,122 509,307 48,016,571 20,121,280 29,812,873 2,810,702 834,037 165,743 792,650 58,364 43,549,907 2,184,576 236,079 2,202,465 197,963 32,613,885 3,404,120 4,455,434 19,049,803 1,061,523 2,074,923 116,134,198 226,451 1,588,241 90,825 920,754 37,089 1,442,828 23,019,277 3,613,004 518,720 88,834,466 27,903,442 35,207,587 5,355,440 869,486 206,246 1,037,503 66,982 72,212,622 1,839,481 213,079 2,190,465 197,963 32,613,885 3,404,120 1,853,501 10,074,303 761,523 2,074,923 105,841,113 184,234 1,554,779 90,825 900,754 37,089 1,260,937 14,868,118 3,597,485 437,720 82,214,102 16,043,814 28,777,366 2,196,224 566,121 192,756 972,503 66,982 26,127,686 345,095 23,000 12,000 749,095 475,152 300,000 4,737,257 21,675 4,900 20,000 169,095 961,388 15,519 81,000 5,965,182 8,941,673 6,430,221 3,159,216 303,365 13,490 65,000 2,723,100 1,852,838 8,500,348 5,555,828 20,542 28,562 12,796 7,189,771 655,182 2,917,955 43,361,836 10,353,186 5,576,370 28,562 7,202,567 3,573,137 43,361,836 12,000 1,224,247 300, 000 4,758,932 4,900 20,000 1,130,483 96,519 14,906,855 9,589,437 316,855 65,000 2,723,100 2,388,428 36,018,005 11,927,804 2,836,446 106,025,347 1,645,604 937,843 16,129,055 4,035,205 98,257,916 30,973,590 758,877 1,039,485 26,127,686 2,400,428 36,018,005 23,505,237 3,136,446 116,360,649 1,679,066 957,843 24,462,105 4,131,724 116,737,908 40,563,027 1,075,732 1,104,485 72,212,622 1,859,850 32,564,855 10,031,668 3,138,143 87,989,875 1,211,837 1,061,376 17,323,747 3,736,429 68,137,851 32,623,575 999,780 851,014 43,549,907 1,437,891 32,857,683 7,385,554 3,061,131 79,840,816 990,100 471,139 14,933,369 3,742,857 47,550,022 24,531,292 838,322 584,325 38,849,396 128,459,515112,570,447 138,377,735 43,361,8362,723,10092,292,799 2016/17 Heading GON Revised 16 2015/16 Estimate Source Grant Loan 2014/15 Actual MOF Miscellaneous MOF Domestic Debt Service MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous Recurrent Finance Recurrent Finance Recurrent Finance Recurrent Recurrent Capital 6,229,023 47,429,985 2,579,732 14,085,558 454,442 2,942,311 28,241,455 13,314,776 1 , 2 3 3 15,233,721 42,103,380 4,392,788 18,355,827 816,362 4,007,530 46,854,464 38,770,829 25,658,649 17,328,441 18,008,660 4,760,303 21,323,945 600,591 4,143,173 76,184,000 43,471,387 60,790,000 17,328,441 18,008,660 4,760,303 21,323,945 6 0 0 , 5 9 1 4,143,173 76,184,000 37,571,387 7,860,000 4,000,000 9,330,000 1,900,000 43,600,000 45,500,00013,330,000 35,337,101 26,084,248 4,743,764 76,184,000 45,431,387 35,337,101 26,084,248 4,743,764 76,184,000 104,261,387 57,337,101 22,748,615 4,823,892 46,854,464 64,429,478 53,659,008 16,665,290 3,396,753 28,241,455 13,316,009 111,283,94241,557,464 180,445,387 45,500,00013,330,000121,615,387 195,715,737 Total Expenditure 106,896,411746,309,2061,048,921,354701,171,698531,339,983 2016/17 Heading GON Revised 17 2015/16 Estimate GON Grant Loan Expenditure by Economic Heads and LineItem(Including Financing) 2014/15 (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 8 Recurrent Expenditure Compensation of employees Grants Interest and Services Wages and salaries Grant to Local body Grant to Social Service Grant to Social Service Interest on Foreign Foreign 132,331,660 49,784,962 1,412,337 211,462,387 5,360,894 132,331,660 262,659,686 22,689,335 617,164,129 Salary Local Allowances Dearness Allowance Field Allowance Other Allowance Clothing Fooding Medical Expense Unconditional Capital Grant to Local Bodies Conditional Capital Grant to Local Bodies Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies Conditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies International Membership Fee& Assistance Unconditional Capital Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Unconditional Capital Grant to Other Institutions & Individuals Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Other Institutions & Individuals Interest on Forei gn Loan 106,382,675 1 , 6 5 0 , 2 6 3 3 , 5 9 7 , 3 0 1 282,590 4 , 1 6 6 , 3 3 0 3 , 3 4 9 , 3 3 3 12,214,311 688,857 25,216,051 10,592,465 1 , 9 3 2 , 6 9 2 12,043,754 1 , 4 1 2 , 3 3 7 14,597,906 13,793,909 72,653,552 3 , 8 8 5 , 3 1 3 97,551,977 8 , 9 7 9 , 7 3 0 5 , 3 6 0 , 8 9 4 106 204 690 1,649,791 3,596,847 262,515 4,151,690 3,349,128 12,214,311 688,025 25,216,051 8,200,145 1,837,236 6,261,825 1,412,337 12,597,906 10,177,822 23,624,568 3,399,788 89,269,925 7,752,231 5,360,894 164,001 1 7 3 8 , 7 8 8 12,293 3 8 3 8 2 623,493 43,206 5 , 1 2 7 , 8 4 5 2 , 4 3 2 , 2 6 7 23,973,449 485,525 5,059,547 728,243 13,984 4 7 2 2 8 1 11,287 2 , 3 4 7 1 6 7 4 5 0 1,768,827 52,250 654,084 2,000,000 1,183,820 25,055,535 3,222,505 499,256 Wages and salaries in cash Wages and salaries in kind Capital Grant to Local Body Recurrent Grant to Local Body International Membership Fee& Capital Grant Recurrent Grant Interest on Foreign Foreign 116,079,159 16,252,501 35,808,516 13,976,446 1,412,337 101,045,367 110,417,020 5,360,894 21000 26000 24000 21100 26300 26200 26400 24100 21110 21120 26320 26310 26210 26420 26410 24110 21111 21112 21113 21114 21119 21121 21122 21123 26321 26322 26311 26312 26211 26421 26422 26423 26411 26412 26413 24111 339,278,025 Ac tual 88,543,453 32,997,525 365,483 124,197,651 3,034,174 105,037,753 33,993,127 1,211,948 148,301,020 5,209,150 105,037,753 183,506,095 20,442,871 88,543,453 157,560,659 9,263,197 434,065,864 66,118,509 1,220,809 3,127,224 108,668 2,888,695 2,542,468 11,584,153 952,927 8,026,805 10,538,409 2,944,366 11,487,945 365,483 7,456,779 2,685,697 15,138,199 2,816,738 73,363,638 22,736,600 3,034,174 80,664,012 1,411,688 3,411,815 119,694 5,305,280 3,043,661 10,756,601 325,002 11,101,284 6,107,111 1,476,870 15,307,862 1,211,948 9,288,430 5,113,842 43,656,768 2 , 7 5 3 , 2 8 3 73,808,262 13,680,435 5,209,150 73,463,905 15,079,548 18,565,214 14,432,311 365,483 25,280,675 98,916,976 3,034,174 90,912,489 14,125,264 17,208,395 16,784,732 1,211,948 58,059,040 90,241,980 5,209,150 2016/17Heading Source Fiscal Year 2016/17 Revised 523629156 132116997 189749834 22689335 132116997 41515257 1412337 146822240 5360894 115865533 16251464 33416196 8099061 1412337 46400296 100421944 5360894 54892262 185675 38473575 0 185255 420 623493 5171051 0 26405716 6273315 0 185675 5794544 0 32679031 0 38642711 28988 34436277 0 28988 2475161 0 31961116 0 28371 617 1768827 706334 0 28239355 3721761 0 18 2015/16 Estimate GON Grant Loan 2014/15 Other Expenditure Social Security Subsidies Use of goods and services Interest on Internal Loan Refunds property Related Expenditure Retirement Benefits Scholarships Social Security Subsidies to Private Enterprises Subsidies to Public Corporations Consultancy and Other Services fee 17,328,441 1,430,000 6,689 58,020,541 2,455,750 35,637,115 1,320,862 707,217 9,219,746 1,436,689 96,113,406 2,028,079 99,905,274 Interest on Internal Loan Revenue Refund Judicial Refund Other Refund Land Rent Pensions and Disability Allowance Gratuity Accumulated Leave Medical Facility Deceased Staff Assistance Scholarships Conditional Social Security Subsidy Other Unconditional Social Assistance Operating Subsidies to NonFinancial Private Enterprises Capital Subsidies to NonFinancial Private Enterprises Operating Subsidy NonFinancial Corporations Capital Subsidy Non-Financial Corporations Consultancy and Services Expenses Other Services fee 17,328,441 70,000 1 , 3 6 0 , 0 0 0 6 , 6 8 9 42,268,425 1 , 1 4 3 , 2 0 0 6 , 7 8 5 , 7 1 7 7 , 6 7 3 , 1 9 9 150,000 2 , 4 5 5 , 7 5 0 34,635,985 1 , 0 0 1 , 1 3 0 281,099 1 , 0 3 9 , 7 6 3 448,037 259,180 4 , 6 8 3 , 5 9 6 4 , 5 3 6 , 1 5 0 17,328,441 7 0 , 0 0 0 1,360,000 6 , 6 8 9 42,268,425 1,141,320 6,785,677 7,673,199 150,000 1,777,796 34,635,985 1,001,130 6 , 3 3 8 104,412 448,037 182,580 2,488,598 4,278,625 5 8 3 1 2 300,718 271,000 935,351 76,600 1 , 8 1 6 , 7 5 9 190,969 1 , 2 9 7 2 8 377,236 3 , 7 6 1 378,239 66,556 Interest on Internal Loan Refunds Land Rent Retirement Benefits Scholarships Social Security Subsidies to Non-Financial Ente Operating Subsidy Non-Financ Consultancy and Other Services 17,328,441 1,430,000 6,689 58,020,541 2,455,750 35,637,115 1,320,862 707,217 9,219,746 28000 27000 25000 22000 24200 28200 28100 27300 27200 27100 25200 25100 22400 24210 28210 28140 27310 27210 27110 25210 25110 22410 24211 28211 28212 28213 28141 27311 27312 27313 27314 27315 27211 27111 27112 25211 25212 25111 25112 22411 22412 Actual 6,229,023 300,827 9,273 34,401,121 2,199,730 14,156,965 260,965 757,766 4,518,373 15,233,721 3,473,492 6,317 45,332,126 2,580,822 17,614,298 658,413 954,405 6,297,467 3,479,809 65,527,246 1,612,818 54,459,272 310,100 50,757,816 1,018,731 31,824,069 6,229,023 7 , 6 0 3 293,224 9 , 2 7 3 26,125,295 478,831 3,261,760 4,494,791 40,444 2,199,730 14,156,462 5 0 3 124,056 136,909 586,266 171,500 2,207,478 2,310,895 15,233,721 1 , 5 8 0 278,518 3,193,394 6 , 3 1 7 36,589,772 432,621 3,571,543 4,592,690 145,500 2,580,822 14,696,538 2,917,760 119,439 538,974 4 7 0 , 3 7 5 484,030 2,941,939 3,355,528 6,229,023 300,827 9,273 34,401,121 2,199,730 14,156,965 260,965 757,766 4,518,373 15,233,721 3,473,492 6,317 45,332,126 2,580,822 17,614,298 658,413 954,405 6,297,467 2016/17Heading Source Revised 1436689 95433532 741367 81461402 17328441 1430000 6689 58018621 1777796 35637115 110750 630617 6767223 17328441 1430000 6689 58018621 1777796 35637115 110750 630617 6767223 0 301313 1282951 14648748 0 0 0 595 300718 0 1206351 76600 2007728 0 0 0 595 300718 0 1206351 76600 2007728 0 378561 3761 3795124 0 0 0 1325 377236 0 3761 0 444795 0 0 0 1325 377236 0 3761 0 444795 19 2015/16 Estimate GON Grant Loan 2014/15 Miscellaneous Monitoring,Evaluation & Travelling Expenses Offices Materials & Services Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets Program Expenses Recurrent Contingencies Rent & Services 1,164,998 3,626,483 5,491,965 4,902,278 39,487,298 31,393,356 4,619,150 Miscellaneous Monitoring & Evaluation Expenses Travelling Expenses Travelling Expenses of VIPs & Delegations Other Travelling Expenses General Office Expenses Feedds for Animals & Birds Books and Materials Fuel and Oil For Administrative Purposes Repair and Maintenance of Public Property Fuel and Oil Vehicles Operation & Maintenance Insurance Employee Training Skill Development and Awareness Training Program Medicine Purchases Production Materials/Services Program Expenses Other Program Expenses Recurrent Contingencies House Rent Other Rent Water and Electricity 1 , 1 6 4 , 9 9 8 2 , 0 0 0 , 5 1 5 1 , 4 9 8 , 9 3 2 65,000 62,036 4 , 5 7 8 , 2 8 5 135,826 61,498 221,751 494,605 2 , 6 6 5 , 8 8 2 1 , 9 0 1 , 5 0 4 334,892 1 , 2 7 5 , 0 3 4 5 , 2 4 5 , 4 7 2 5 , 6 1 0 , 4 2 4 1 , 0 4 6 , 3 2 5 25,819,380 490,663 31,393,356 1 , 8 6 3 , 1 7 2 109,128 1,123,225 1,715,187 1,319,501 6 5 , 0 0 0 6 2 , 0 3 6 4,326,336 135,826 5 7 , 5 0 6 217,120 471,123 2,570,322 1,824,678 322,554 946,531 2,725,148 2,829,995 1,009,638 16,773,024 480,898 31,216,356 1,809,048 9 7 , 7 5 1 35,980 225,901 171,928 223,297 3 , 8 9 2 3 , 7 7 2 1 0 , 8 5 8 64,434 54,450 10,330 288,862 2 , 1 1 7 , 0 9 1 2 , 7 8 0 , 4 2 9 25,178 6 , 4 7 0 , 1 5 3 9 , 7 6 5 60,000 39,584 2 , 9 5 8 5 , 7 9 3 59,427 7 , 5 0 3 28,652 1 0 0 8 5 9 12,624 31,126 22,376 2 , 0 0 8 39,641 403,233 11,509 2,576,203 117,000 14,540 8 , 4 1 9 Miscellaneous Monitoring,Evaluation & Travelli Office Materials & Services Repair and Maintenance of Publ Operation & Maintenance of Cap Consultancy and Other Services Medicines Production Materials and Progra Recurrent Contingencies Rent Utilities 1,164,998 3,626,483 4,997,360 494,605 4,902,278 6,520,506 5,610,424 27,356,368 31,393,356 1,972,300 2,646,850 22700 22600 22300 22200 22500 22900 22100 22710 22610 22310 22320 22210 22510 22530 22520 22910 22120 22110 22711 22611 22612 22613 22614 22311 22312 22313 22314 22321 22211 22212 22213 22511 22512 22531 22521 22522 22529 22911 22121 22122 Actual 980,577 1,922,426 3,276,106 3,400,550 14,893,663 2,832,374 1,486,318 2,962,605 5,099,637 7,324,111 24,669,091 6,620,043 980,577 1,081,471 782,784 43,595 14,576 2,951,106 73,761 21,653 134,259 95,327 1,870,421 1,313,359 216,770 585,634 2,672,077 1,789,319 524,992 9,112,586 209,055 1,287,295 9 4 , 3 5 0 1,486,318 1,340,710 1,275,744 335,622 1 0 , 5 2 9 4,593,141 107,655 3 4 , 1 9 7 161,213 203,431 3,740,169 3,124,567 459,375 940,370 4,883,930 5,784,553 1,037,482 11,656,594 366,162 1,619,056 9 9 , 3 6 1 980,577 1,922,426 3,180,779 95,327 3,400,550 3,257,711 1,789,319 9,846,633 1,381,645 1,450,729 1,486,318 2,962,605 4,896,206 203,431 7,324,111 5,824,300 5,784,553 13,060,238 1,718,417 4,901,626 2016/17Heading Source Revised 1123225 3161724 5207911 4717554 24765234 31216356 4502175 1123225 3161724 4736788 471123 4717554 3671679 2829995 18263560 31216356 1906799 2595376 35980 397829 230961 10858 129214 2405953 2780429 6505096 60000 42542 42158 35980 397829 241819 129214 11691478 60000 84700 5793 66930 42235 55510 3030586 117000 32275 5793 66930 29611 12624 55510 442874 0 2587712 117000 22959 9316 20 2015/16 Estimate GON Grant Loan 2014/15 Capital Expenditure Capital Expenditure Building Capital Contingencies Capital Research & Consultancy Civil Works Furniture & Fittings Land Plant & Machinery Vehicles 89,203,844 1,299,144 15,769,569 180,198,999 1,338,541 10,249,843 10,831,658 3,054,727 311,946,325 311,946,325 Communication Building Purchase Building Construction Capital Formation Building Capital Contingencies Capital Research & Consultancy Software Devloment and Purchase Capital Formation Civil Works Construction Furniture & Fixtures Land Acquisition Plant & Machinery Vehicles 1,728,484 918,366 2 , 3 5 8 , 8 3 9 86,093,709 751,296 1 , 2 9 9 , 1 4 4 14,416,852 1 , 3 5 2 , 7 1 7 10,572,346 169,626,653 1 , 3 3 8 , 5 4 1 10,249,843 10,831,658 3 , 0 5 4 , 7 2 7 1,714,681 880,695 2,358,839 16,325,782 586,711 1,266,144 6,908,676 391,208 6,855,821 95,798,753 1,131,423 10,249,843 7,781,649 2,299,237 11,022 31,136 23,875,146 16,070 30,000 3 , 3 9 2 , 2 7 5 931,426 2 , 8 6 7 , 6 1 4 15,846,791 37,556 1 , 8 3 7 , 0 4 9 447,122 2 , 7 8 1 6 , 5 3 5 45,892,781 148,515 3 , 0 0 0 4,115,901 30,083 848,911 57,981,109 169,562 1,212,960 308,368 Building Purchase Building Construction Capital Formation Building Capital Contingencies Capital Research & Consultancy Capital Formation Civil Works Civil Works Construction Furniture & Fittings Land Acquisition Plant & Machinery Vehicles 2,358,839 86,093,709 751,296 1,299,144 15,769,569 10,572,346 169,626,653 1,338,541 10,249,843 10,831,658 3,054,727 29000 29200 29800 29700 29600 29300 29100 29500 29400 29210 29220 29230 29810 29710 29620 29610 29310 29110 29510 29410 22111 22112 29211 29221 29231 29811 29711 29712 29621 29611 29311 29111 29511 29411 88,754,708 Actual 9,327,133 3,225,668 64,902,921 585,797 2,836,905 5,162,937 2,713,347 21,481,995 8,839,177 112,667,170 649,949 6,702,164 6,899,297 1,849,438 159,089,19088,754,708 159,089,190 926,322 524,407 8,678,964 648,169 3,152,040 73,628 2,834,687 62,068,234 585,797 2,836,905 5,162,937 2,713,347 3,368,795 1,532,831 2,015,941 17,187,945 2,278,109 7,925,221 913,956 11,582,969 1 0 1 , 0 8 4 , 2 0 1 649,949 6,702,164 6,899,297 1,849,438 8,678,964 648,169 3,225,668 2,834,687 62,068,234 585,797 2,836,905 5,162,937 2,713,347 2,015,941 17,187,945 2, 278,109 8,839,177 11,582,969 101,084,201 649,949 6,702,164 6,899,297 1,849,438 2016/17Heading Source Revised 151954086 151954086 19271332 1266144 7299884 102654574 1131423 10249843 7781649 2299237 2358839 16325782 586711 1266144 7299884 6855821 95798753 1131423 10249843 7781649 2299237 49281049 49281049 0 23875146 16070 30000 4323701 2867614 15846791 37556 0 1837049 447122 23891216 30000 4323701 18714405 37556 0 1837049 447122 110711190 110711190 46041296 3000 4145984 58830020 169562 0 1212960 308368 0 45892781 148515 3000 4145984 848911 57981109 169562 0 1212960 308368 21 2015/16 Estimate GON Grant Loan 2014/15 Finance Fiscal Policy (L-R) Liquidity Net Internal Loan Net Investment Domestic Net Borrowing External Net Borrowing 53,644,620 22,690,502 18,008,660 25,467,118 76,335,122 43,475,778 119,810,900 195,715,737Total Expenditure 106,896,411746,309,2061,048,921,354 Internal Loan to Corporations Share InvestmentsCorporations Foreign Share Investments Domestic Amortization External Amortization 53,644,620 21,690,502 1 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0 18,008,660 25,467,118 12,570,184 14,305,002 375,000 18,008,660 25,467,118 1 , 0 2 5 , 1 0 0 1 , 6 9 8 , 0 0 0 40,049,336 5,687,500 625,000 Internal Loan Domestic Share Investments Foreign Share Investments Domestic Amortization External Amortizations 53,644,620 21,690,502 1,000,000 18,008,660 25,467,118 31000 32000 31100 31200 32200 32100 31110 31210 31220 32210 32110 31111 31211 31221 32211 32111 103,307,250 Actual 28,338,969 10,510,427 47,429,985 17,027,869 30,060,571 13,489,336 42,103,380 22,363,357 43,549,907 64,466,737 38,849,396 64,457,854 108,016,644 701,171,698531,339,983 28,338,969 8,524,012 1,986,415 47,429,985 17,027,869 30,060,571 13,290,339 198,997 42,103,380 22,363,357 28,338,969 8,524,012 1,986,415 47,429,985 17,027,869 30,060,571 13,290,339 198,997 42,103,380 22,363,357 2016/17Heading Source Revised 70725964 27250186 43475778 12570184 14680002 18008660 25467118 12570184 14305002 375000 18008660 25467118 2723100 2723100 0 1025100 1698000 0 0 0 1025100 1698000 0 0 46361836 46361836 0 40049336 6312500 0 0 40049336 5687500 625000 0 0 22 Development 2014/15 Actual 2015/16 Compensation of employees Use of goods and services Subsidies Grants Social Security Other Expenditure Capital Expenditure Wages and salaries Rent & Services Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets Offices Materials & Services Consultancy and Other Services fee Program Expenses Monitoring,Evaluation & Travelling Expenses Miscellaneous Recurrent Contingencies Subsidies to Public Corporations Subsidies to Private Enterprises Grant to Social Service Grant to Local body Grant to Social Service Social Security Scholarships Retirement Benefits property Related Expenditure Refunds Land Building Furniture & Fittings Vehicles Plant & Machinery Civil Works Capital Research & Consultancy Capital Contingencies 4,417,536 403,484 596,258 633,447 2,980,562 12,500,518 638,572 103,276 330,966 260,965 3,685 31,840,293 56,661,490 1,205,753 2,047,902 137,148 53 47,157 2,055,169 5,537,877 253,391 727,545 2,290,328 63,305,126 3,166,296 5,972,050 625,476 672,656 1,003,290 4,110,831 21,058,908 911,274 141,697 568,006 658,413 2,263 32,705,022 84,323,655 2,004,447 2,078,530 183,759 185 38,716 6,070,201 12,885,105 284,553 726,483 4,046,346 109,741,900 8,533,979 8,521,859 838,232 1,007,861 1,452,315 5,476,841 34,154,367 1,662,271 230,661 1,674,206 282,218 1,320,862 4,032 47,797,734 134,348,163 2,340,124 2,140,819 230,141 589 10,000 9,498,226 79,298,092 760,429 1,658,638 6,741,741 177,878,089 15,167,203 1,266,144 8, 307,196 721,257 823,137 1,168,761 3,026,318 19,624,067 1,210,212 188,888 1,504,206 205,618 110,750 4,032 39,528,029 73,505,781 2,340,124 1,462,865 228,221 589 10,000 9,498,226 11,593,425 553,811 903,148 3,721,164 100,358,664 6,734,518 1,266,144 185,675 84,700 129,214 241,319 2,005,728 11,499,714 385,129 35,980 60,000 76,600 1,206,351 5,794,544 28,881,266 300,718 595 21,663,371 37,056 447,122 1,807,617 18,689,405 4,286,701 28,988 32,275 55,510 42,235 444,795 3,030,586 66,930 5,793 110,000 3,761 2,475,161 31,961,116 377,236 1,325 46,041,296 169,562 308,368 1,212,960 58,830,020 4,145,984 28,988 3,788,124 3,761 34,436,277 378,561 110,708,190 185,675 14,441,784 1,282,951 34,675,810 301,313 46,931,272 8,307,196 28,266,846 316,368 113,037,842 4,031,210 10,589 134,629,100 8,521,859 46,496,754 1,603,080 182,149,929 4,711,084 10,589 292,268,562 5,972,050 28,524,132 1,226,419 117,030,940 4,266,736 38,901 142,288,567 4,417,536 17,856,117 591,931 88,505,468 3, 390,803 47,210 77,335,732 535,761,857192,144,797 299,347,745 149,343,90197,818,805288,599,151Total Estimate GON Grant Loan Fiscal Year 2016/17 LineItem wise Estimates (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 9 2016/17 Source Heading Revised Estimate 23 Regular 2014/15 Actual 2015/16 Compensation of employees Use of goods and services Interest and Services Subsidies Grants Social Security Other Expenditure Capital Expenditure Wages and salaries Rent & Services Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets Offices Materials & Services Consultancy and Other Services fee Program Expenses Monitoring,Evaluation & Travelling Expenses Miscellaneous Recurrent Contingencies Interest on Foreign Foreign Interest on Internal Loan Subsidies to Public Corporations Grant to Social Service Grant to Local body Grant to Social Service Social Security Scholarships Retirement Benefits property Related Expenditure Refunds Land Building Furniture & Fittings Vehicles Plant & Machinery Civil Works Capital Research & Consultancy Capital Contingencies 84,125,917 2,428,890 2,804,292 2,642,659 1,537,811 2,393,145 1,283,854 877,301 3,034,174 6,229,023 426,800 361,798 1,157,232 67,536,161 12,951,212 151,828 34,263,973 9,220 253,670 781,736 3,789,256 332,406 1,985,802 2,872,609 1,597,795 59,372 99,065,703 5,994,567 6,651,455 4,096,347 2,186,636 3,610,183 2,051,331 1,344,621 5,209,150 15,233,721 386,399 1,209,685 1,288,105 63,977,365 15,609,851 502,292 45,148,367 6,132 3,434,776 631,963 8,596,890 365,396 1,122,955 2,852,951 2,925,270 305,198 123,809,801 3,780,918 3,894,417 4,039,650 3,742,905 5,332,931 1,964,212 934,337 29,719,150 5,360,894 17,328,441 424,999 1,408,305 1,987,228 77,114,224 33,296,991 314,931 57,790,400 6,100 1,420,000 751,617 9,905,752 578,112 1,396,089 4,089,917 2,320,910 602, 366 33,000 123,809,801 3,780,918 3,894,417 4,039,150 3,740,905 5,141,167 1,951,512 934,337 29,712,150 5,360,894 17,328,441 424,999 1,408,305 1,987,228 73,316,459 33,296,991 314,931 57,790,400 6,100 1,420,000 751,617 7,677,907 577,612 1,396,089 4,060,485 2,295,910 565,366 500 2,000 191,764 12,700 3,797,765 2,227,845 500 29,432 25,000 37,000 30,000 7,000 3,000 7,000 3,000 206,964 3,797,765 2,349,777 123,809,801 53,194,556 22,689,335 424,999 76,711,992 91,402,322 1,426,100 17,324,986 123,809,801 53,408,520 22,689,335 424,999 80,509,757 91,402,322 1,426,100 19,677,763 99,065,703 25,935,140 20,442,871 386,399 66,475,155 61,260,510 3,440,908 16,800,623 84,125,917 13,967,952 9,263,197 426,800 69,055,191 47,367,013 262,890 11,418,976 393,348,597235,887,936 293,807,309 10,0006,354,506386,984,091 Total Estimate GON Grant Loan 2016/17 Source Heading Revised Estimate 24 Head of State Constitutional Body Ministry President Deputy President Legislature Parliament Courts Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Public Service Commission Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Supply Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Commerce Ministry of Population and environment Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Defence MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Education Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Labour and Employment 286,217 3 5 , 4 3 3 1,420,556 4,144,594 1,111,796 521,881 588,651 591,524 167,696 759,198 5 1 , 4 3 9 89,740,948 11,495,020 925,157 7,055,667 13,200,727 214,397 27,438,261 22,074,380 44,398,131 5,912,978 5,642,971 8,465,561 13,772,196 1,339,385 8,333,972 854,238 5,815,100 79,186,848 2,420,655 2,400,428 36,018,005 23,505,237 3,136,446 116 360 649 1,679,066 957,843 24,462,105 4,131,724 116 737 908 40,563,027 1,075,732 286,217 35,433 1 , 4 2 0 , 5 5 6 2 , 8 9 5 , 4 0 1 681,606 329,301 485,880 473,865 167,696 501,226 51,439 5 , 0 1 6 , 1 4 4 6 , 0 8 0 , 0 5 7 750,158 1 , 6 3 4 , 2 0 2 305,760 214,397 609,177 401,068 44,009,657 968,312 5 , 6 4 2 , 9 7 1 792,981 6 , 5 4 6 , 4 8 2 119,547 729,742 233,447 2 , 5 1 5 , 4 8 3 1 , 6 6 6 , 4 6 1 212,242 2 , 0 1 7 , 5 2 0 36,018,005 1 , 3 9 0 , 6 5 1 335,762 84,115,108 1 , 0 8 7 , 5 8 7 754,005 835,235 3 , 8 5 7 , 7 0 7 32,999,784 10,960,878 421,528 1 , 2 4 9 , 1 9 3 430,190 192,580 102,771 117,659 257,972 890,765 5 , 4 1 4 , 9 6 3 174,999 4 , 5 7 0 , 2 9 7 12 894 967 23 932 179 13 722 322 388,474 4 , 9 4 4 , 6 6 6 5 , 2 5 5 , 2 9 3 5 , 9 4 3 , 7 2 7 1 , 2 1 9 , 8 3 8 7 , 6 0 4 , 2 3 0 620,791 3 , 2 9 9 , 6 1 7 77 520 387 909,598 382,908 22 114 586 1 , 9 9 9 , 3 6 3 6 , 6 4 9 , 1 4 9 520,633 203,838 23 626 870 274,017 829,633 19 046 638 654,204 83,834,039 851,168 2 , 8 9 6 , 9 0 5 7 , 9 5 0 , 9 9 0 2 , 4 1 7 , 2 8 7 1 , 2 8 1 , 9 8 7 1 , 2 9 8 , 8 1 5 801,321 25,596,392 70,846 82,908,491 10,555,511 1,249,193 430,190 192,580 102,771 117,659 257,972 84,724,804 5,414,963 174,999 5,421,465 12,894,967 26,829,084 21,673,312 388,474 4,944,666 7,672,580 7,225,714 1,219,838 7,604,230 620,791 3,299,617 77,520,387 2,208,413 382,908 22,114,586 2,800,684 32,245,541 591,479 203,838 23,626,870 274,017 83,738,124 29,602,149 654,204 2,350,365 466,593,992220,463,752 2,350,365 246,130,240 321,650 7,006,970 253,825,255 321,650 9,357,335 720,419,247 Estimate Regula r Central District Total DevelopmentHead Ministry wise Regular & Development Expenditure Budget ( Including Financing) 2016/17 (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 10Fiscal Year 25 Report No. 10 Page 2 / 2 Ministry MOF Financing & Debt Service MOF Miscellaneous National Planning Commission Secretariata MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous 1,104,485 72,212,622 35,337,101 26,084,248 4,743,764 76,184,000 104,261,387 583,197 35,337,101 26,084,248 4 , 7 4 3 , 7 6 4 76,184,000 33,321,387 521,288 72,212,622 14,110,000 56,830,000 521,288 72,212,622 70,940,000 72,212,622 70,940,00056,830,000 72,212,622 14,110,000 66,165,113 109,505,387 138,377,735 180,445,387 334,803,2271,048,921,354 612,096,979 277,293,752436,824,375Total Estimate Regula r Central District Total DevelopmentHead 26 1.1 1.2 1.3 Executive and legislative organs, financial and fiscal affairs, external affai Foreign economic aid General services 101 102 202 206 208 301 305 306 313 326 327 332 347 352 356 365 501 503 504 601 602 357 210 301 305 314 325 326 329 President Deputy President Legislature Parliament Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Supply Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Science & Technology MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Irrigation Public Service Commission Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICE01 94,185,403 3,171 14,062,731 136,641,473 Function-wise Prioritization of Budget (Including Financing) 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 400,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 286,217 35,433 1,420,556 1,111,796 521,881 4,479,910 7,288,799 112,665 278,419 4,841,556 188,885 88,706 66,889 409,427 73,788 226,049 3,200,000 26,084,248 4,743,764 70,184,000 43,931,387 217,154 588,651 170,590 1,065,255 10,526,379 519,309 801,415 30,136 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 30,099,387 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 41,834 0 0 0 0 0 1,000 3,200,000 0 0 0 7,860,00 0 0 0 0 0 0 15,470 3,550 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 207,008 0 0 20,114 0 0 0 0 73,788 69,715 0 0 0 0 1,442,000 0 0 0 0 0 394,973 784,451 0 200,600 5,350 40,623 275,055 180,000 60,901 999,630 14,800 231,240 2,254,423 55,045 54,605 14,015 10,241 0 10,480 0 21,323,945 4,143,173 0 2,100,000 213,983 56,496 10,995 981,165 308,393 3,058 2,440 725 85,617 30,083 1,379,933 836,741 341,881 4,419,009 6,082,161 97,865 47,179 2,525,185 133,840 34,101 52,874 399,186 0 144,854 0 4,760,303 600,591 70,184,000 2,030,000 3,171 532,155 159,595 84,090 10,217,986 105,808 10,974 29,411 Recurrent Total 11,102,834 0 43,003 1,812,625 0 1,756,550 11,102,834 0 43,003 30,099,387 0 0 400,000 0 0 169,574,375 217,154 20,110,669 55,209,947 36,215,792 12,761,362 30,169,387 420,000 271,417,961 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent RecurrentCapital and Financing Capital and Financing Annex 11 (Rs. in '000')Fiscal Year 2016/17 27 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 2.1 2.2 2.5 3.1 Basic research R General public services General public services n.e.c. Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of government Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services 347 356 365 391 602 357 305 212 214 314 337 349 365 501 501 502 365 307 345 314 347 314 MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development National Planning Commission Secretariata MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Ministry of Home Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Industry Ministry of Defence Ministry of Home MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Home DEFENCE PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY 02 03 2,218 9,821 10,888,786 17,328,441 160,902 32,134,466 10,279 0 24,370,154 32,144,745 33,137,147 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 20,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 666,447 884,055 253,947 1,104,485 3,500,000 48,236 10,201 591,524 167,696 54,023 20,833 615,525 10,295,000 130,000 1,000,000 35,337,101 33,245,624 409,845 35,479,835 103,079 52,202 28,301,281 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 70,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,350 21,633 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 615,525 0 0 1,000,000 0 0 0 264,400 0 49,940 0 0 324,820 194,976 57,330 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 32,646,617 0 127,673 0 2,262 0 277,700 37,089 24,975 45,349 2,50 0,000 46,018 380 101,320 3,000 35,770 10,200 0 0 130,000 0 18,008,660 438,105 223,421 3,139,720 92,800 0 3,931,127 388,747 522,146 31,646 980,173 1,000,000 2,218 9,821 490,204 164,696 18,253 10,633 0 10,205,000 0 0 17,328,441 160,902 186,424 31,948,042 10,279 0 24,370,154 Recurrent Total 0 0 615,525 1,000,000 0 264,400 0 49,940 0 0 0 0 0 32,646,617 127,673 0 2,262 0 0 0 615,525 1,000,000 0 264,400 0 49,940 0 0 0 70,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 20,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 48,236 10,201 11,874,601 36,337,101 33,245,624 35,889,680 103,079 52,202 28,301,281 3,455,941 8,361,431 129,935 108,936 314,340 3,392 0 9,440 0 173 36,044,961 41,620,519 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent RecurrentCapital and Financing Capital and Financing 28 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.6 4.1 4.2 4.3 Fire-protection services Law courts Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting Fuel and energy 314 204 216 218 311 371 314 301 314 349 301 306 330 352 365 371 305 312 327 329 336 352 357 365 501 Ministry of Home Courts Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Home Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Supply Ministry of Commerce Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Finance Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing ECONOMIC AFFAIRS04 6,693 3,897,678 1,013,045 3,849,577 55,216,474 43,186,734 6,459,974 129,050,390 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 173 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 45,000 0 0 6,898 4,144,594 759,198 51,439 214,397 10,884 1,187,895 1,095,464 3,327,548 2,520,921 83,945,840 555,010 1,339,385 70,846 10,031,654 1,036,197 2,300,000 27,420,783 8,276,676 12,220,108 5,815,100 835,487 23,134,671 1,713,189 1,788,500 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 9,440 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 49,680 0 0 0 1,545 0 0 1,447 400 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 13,810 0 109,558 1,540 630,132 16,847 0 496,032 0 0 0 79,594 0 0 18,858 10,484 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,440,00 6 320,856 0 294,070 157,824 3,430,078 68,364 97,300 48,979 0 0 205 954,201 212,000 945 3,360 0 174,850 910,766 714,579 1,459,398 34,290,932 30,000 920,881 0 2,558,727 187,246 0 3,712,433 1,879,461 3,520,807 1,082,200 76,198 21,203,809 1,608,968 1,788,500 6,693 3,109,254 547,198 50,494 190,732 0 1,013,045 184,698 2,603,356 1,061,523 49,654,908 525,010 418,504 70,846 4,032,921 514,285 2,300,000 23,304,722 6,237,851 4,639,091 4,647,689 661,989 1,291,171 104,221 0 Recurrent Total 0 3,392 0 0 13,810 1,254,109 153,217 0 108,936 0 0 3,760,862 4,096,615 33,094 0 3,392 0 0 13,810 1,254,109 153,217 0 0 0 9,440 0 49,680 905 0 0 0 173 0 45,000 24,272 6,898 5,180,512 1,187,895 6,943,933 96,978,932 83,504,514 54,666,153 262,207,388 8,654,080 23,709,584 674,742 703,078 424,999,262 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent RecurrentCapital and Financing Capital and Financing 29 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport Communication Other industries R Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. 307 308 331 501 307 337 332 337 347 365 501 332 358 501 306 307 312 325 329 501 307 308 357 602 305 501 Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Population and environment MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Information and Communications MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Supply Ministry of Industry Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Irrigation MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing 87,890 7,935,733 3,069,430 3,805,418 9,187,872 100,865 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 24,272 0 0 0 0 28,000 255,005 350,001 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 800 0 0 0 0 328,620 12,600,774 6,152,459 35,584,300 87,103 2,785,782 40,869 76,380,233 959,858 19,387,618 7,809,702 408,485 3,761,097 270,000 82,483 5,930,723 17,478 2,003,439 38,224 11,531,000 299,376 599,953 200,075 56,830,000 126,165 300,000 0 905 0 0 0 0 12,869 0 4,435 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7,700 0 0 0 599,153 0 0 0 0 0 153,217 0 0 0 0 0 7,536,167 65,000 2,995,596 0 0 145,345 0 0 15,340 0 0 0 11,531,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 33,094 0 0 0 0 0 306, 416 1,675 1,843 0 0 374,371 0 0 53,706 0 25,498 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 283,431 12,098,000 28,960 35,584,300 16,740 2,768,255 0 62,106,343 244,599 14,924,896 7,809,702 322,261 258,175 270,000 14,010 3,242,880 700 881,715 25,380 0 49,936 0 161,643 47,930,000 25,300 300,000 45,189 291,286 6,123,499 0 70,363 17,527 0 6,176,302 294,148 1,465,283 0 86,224 2,983,206 0 68,473 2,618,797 16,778 1,088,526 12,844 0 249,440 0 38,432 8,900,000 100,865 0 Recurrent Total 0 10,596,763 145,345 11,546,340 0 0 0 309,934 374,371 79,204 0 0 0 10,596,763 145,345 11,546,340 0 0 0 17,304 0 7,700 599,153 0 0 633,006 0 0 800 0 2,872,885 104,578,280 4,439,582 19,603,347 57,929,404 426,165 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent RecurrentCapital and Financing Capital and Financing 30 5.1 5.2 5.5 5.6 6.1 6.2 6.3 Waste management Waste water management R Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. Housing development Community development Wa t e r s u p p l y 305 313 365 501 313 357 329 501 313 329 331 332 347 305 347 501 329 340 347 365 313 347 365 501 Ministry of Finance Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Population and environment Ministry of Science & Technology MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Finance MInistry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES 05 06 276,555 9,177 21,797 2,666,260 2,703,932 1,522,116 1,426,719 2,973,789 5,738,726 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 50 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 320,000 105,000 359,155 189,391 4,611,014 202,139 861,969 27,027 3,047,906 13,161 1,075,081 2,181,513 316,178 2,080,455 599,600 18,955,577 517,000 381,620 99,846 185,021 4,477,284 21,221,506 538,788 935,022 2,423,200 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 13,111 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 155,911 0 200,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 99,150 12,385 0 3,716,667 0 0 0 106,683 0 121,000 0 0 1,463,200 0 0 33,480 0 2,139 0 0 0 0 0 0 217,028 10,0 96 0 90,687 0 0 0 78,338 160,018 21,825 0 0 0 0 187,600 0 4,611,014 0 852,792 5,230 3,047,906 0 890,232 1,088,881 0 669,195 0 13,043,891 517,000 65,193 3,846 0 3,207,577 20,012,023 499,727 614,022 640,000 105,000 171,555 0 0 0 9,177 21,797 0 0 184,849 1,092,632 0 1,388,779 599,600 2,104,332 0 316,427 96,000 0 1,109,689 1,066,658 39,061 321,000 0 Recurrent Total 155,911 200,000 0 111,535 3,716,667 106,683 1,584,200 33,480 2,139 0 227,124 90,687 238,356 21,825 155,911 200,000 0 111,535 3,716,667 106,683 1,584,200 0 0 0 13,111 0 0 0 0 0 0 50 0 0 320,000 5,264,560 1,064,108 3,074,933 5,666,388 20,072,177 5,143,771 25,118,516 11,352,850 39,858,988 262,743 350,868 467,446 5,407,550 13,111 0 50 320,000 15,069,989 51,676,132 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent RecurrentCapital and Financing Capital and Financing 31 6.6 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 7.6 8.1 8.2 8.3 9.1 9.2 Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services Hospital services Public health services R Health Health n.e.c. Recreational and sporting services Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education 365 370 306 370 314 345 370 601 365 370 370 350 343 325 365 358 350 Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Supply Ministry of Health Ministry of Home Ministry of Defence Ministry of Health MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Health Ministry of Education Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Education HEALTH RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION EDUCATION 07 08 09 85,959 234,668 4,772,931 10,073,553 15,611,132 5,177,926 530,000 2,202,465 1,504,649 131,066 47,197,499 12,398,971 36,400,210 3,838,180 103,099,807 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,341,668 678,655 174,999 5,210,883 634,793 538,170 8,548,418 6,000,000 273,320 19,082,854 6,755,045 530,000 2,400,428 3,390,230 74,870 370,627 47,837,712 0 0 0 0 0 0 54,900 0 0 0 477,900 0 0 8,900 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 112,154 0 59,075 0 0 0 145,828 0 0 50,000 49,939 700 1,500 0 0 0 0 353,550 538,170 4,123,041 0 0 49,263 927,891 0 0 1,244,607 24,931 124,361 638,713 1,255,709 443,987 0 612,951 34,218 0 372,720 0 400 3,695,379 25,500 0 197,963 582,074 0 114,500 0 85,959 234,668 174, 999 4,597,932 134,871 0 3,938,682 6,000,000 272,920 15,338,212 5,177,926 530,000 2,202,465 1,504,649 0 131,066 47,197,499 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 171,229 0 145,828 0 0 99,939 700 1,500 0 0 0 0 5,014,761 49,263 927,891 0 0 1,269,538 124,361 638,713 0 0 0 0 171,229 0 145,828 0 0 99,939 700 1,500 0 0 0 0 54,900 0 477,900 0 0 8,900 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,341,668 678,655 5,385,882 15,721,381 19,356,174 6,755,045 530,000 2,400,428 3,465,100 370,627 47,837,712 12,398,971 5,185,155 894,537 213,801 5,991,915 1,393,899 12,491,197 317,057 100,639 12,650 532,800 8,900 13,194 0 0 0 48,427,137 6,236,155 115,830,649 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent RecurrentCapital and Financing Capital and Financing 32 9.5 9.6 9.8 10.4 10.7 10.8 10.9 Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R Social protection Social protection n.e.c. 350 350 350 350 365 370 301 365 352 371 314 340 Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare SOCIAL PROTECTION10 26,770,919 15,386,241 1,346,177 1,545,447 32,927,469 382,781 2,006,529 36,862,226 519,886,693 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry Grand Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12,398,971 29,351,116 24,778,012 1,464,838 1,355,680 287,172 49,144 32,937,592 363,306 28,651 256,235 2,320,809 0 0 13,194 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 9,350 1,800 0 0 0 5,312 0 0 201,519 18,353 0 2,448,121 9,288,002 116,361 0 93,445 0 26,289 0 0 54,716 82,047 0 132,076 81,225 500 3,960 0 2,151 25,515 4,386 4,790 0 213,880 12,398,971 26,770,919 15,386,241 1,346,177 1,351,720 193,727 46,993 32,880,476 358,920 23,861 0 2,006,529 Recurrent Total 0 9,350 1,800 0 5,312 0 219,872 2,448,121 9,288,002 116,361 93,445 26,289 0 136,763 0 9,350 1,800 0 5,312 0 219,872 0 13,194 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 29,351,116 24,778,012 1,464,838 1,642,852 32,986,736 391,957 2,577,044 254,682 256,497 225,184 0 0 37,598,589 386,994,720 65,855,862 43,319,204 31,421,574 1,443,301 1,048,921,354 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent RecurrentCapital and Financing Capital and Financing 906,881,413Priority Total 109,175,066 32,864,875 33 01.1 01.2 01.3 Executive and legislative organs, financial and fiscal a Foreign economic aid General services 101 102 202 206 208 301 305 306 313 326 327 332 347 352 356 365 501 503 504 601 602 357 210 301 305 314 325 326 329 347 President Deputy President Legislature Parliament Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Supply Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Science & Technology MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Irrigation Public Service Commission Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MInistry of Urban Development GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICE01 01-Increase production 02 Infrastructure development Sector /Ministry 03 -Human development 04 Good governamce 05 -Crosscutting Total 1021219 3171 394973 1421581 21000001000000 1000 65000001000000 2375 213983 15470 1021219 3171 394973 2375 213983 15470 1000000 6501000 1000000 203838 2100000 277846 11205000 6631000 34011357 2538105 412270 0 2208620 2717050 286217 35433 1420556 1111796 521881 4479910 7288799 112665 278419 4841556 188885 88706 66889 409427 73788 226049 3200000 26084248 4743764 70184000 43931387 217154 588651 170590 1065255 10526379 519309 801415 30136 666447 200600 5350 40623 60901 866032 14800 231240 2296257 55045 54605 14015 10241 9480 21323945 4143173 1760000 10995 308393 3058 5990 85617 30083 1379933 681606 329301 4419009 5103110 97865 47179 2545299 133840 34101 52874 399186 73788 144854 4760303 600591 70184000 31561387 485880 159595 10217986 105808 795425 155135 12580 164840 69715 100 00 46275 84090 388747 3787278 0 3844467 169574375 217154 20110669 9368970 271417961 122663926 12982439 31086307 430726 153642253 49574663 0 0 0 275055 180000 0 131223 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1000 3200000 0 0 0 0 0 56496 0 981165 0 0 0 0 277700 07-General Administration 29411 725 29411 725 29411 725 Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Annex 12 (Rs. in '000) Function-wise Strategic Allocation (Including Financing) ,Fiscal Year -2016/017 34 01.4 01.5 01.6 01.7 01.8 02.1 02.2 02.5 03.1 03.2 Basic research R General public services General public services n.e.c. Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of go Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services Fire-protection services 356 365 391 602 357 305 212 214 314 337 349 365 501 501 502 365 307 345 314 347 314 314 Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development National Planning Commission Secretariata MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Ministry of Home Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Industry Ministry of Defence Ministry of Home MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Home Ministry of Home DEFENCE PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY 02 03 01-Increase production 02 Infrastructure development Sector /Ministry 03 -Human development 04 Good governamce 05 -Crosscutting Total 2218 438105 10420 203838 32807519 18740 130000 49940 10205000 2262 460182218 46018 10205000 2262 130000 49940 32807519 18740 438105 10420 2262 10256 49940 831365 18740 10420 0 9821 86339 0 0 0 10279 0 0 0 10279 1291036 884055 253947 1104485 3500000 48236 10201 591524 167696 54023 20833 615525 10295000 130000 1000000 35337101 33245624 409845 35479835 103079 52202 28301281 6898 37089 24975 40226 3000 35770 10200 18008660 223421 3404120 3920707 205 643128 31646 542971 473865 164696 18253 10633 17328441 186424 32075715 24351414 6693 194976 494532 1000000 9821 16339 70000 10279 0 380 736845 1000000 0 0 92800 0 0 0 48236 10201 11874601 36337101 33245624 358 89680 103079 52202 28301281 6898 92800 2401288 36044961 41620519 667447 17328441 32262139 24351414 6693 48970 18008660 3627541 3920707 205 32262139 31935491 3627541 5121923 0 2350 26756 2500000 0 380 101320 0 0 0 615525 20000 0 1000000 0 0 0 0 92800 0 0 0 07-General Administration Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing 35 03.3 03.4 03.6 04.1 04.2 04.3 Law courts Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting Fuel and energy 204 216 218 311 371 314 301 314 349 301 306 330 352 365 371 305 312 327 329 336 352 357 365 501 307 308 331 Courts Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Home Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Supply Ministry of Commerce Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Finance Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Population and environment ECONOMIC AFFAIRS04 01-Increase production 02 Infrastructure development Sector /Ministry 03 -Human development 04 Good governamce 05 -Crosscutting Total 326602 33387406 28926 36334913 439705 38529 80 12450 587024 1104809 831365 34226007 550 2064288 3178 12093013 28960 10256 49608032 67938 3591467 16263 202001 6123499 896594 3726108 1720001 1082135 650 70398 16371744 1608968 1788500 280253 254756 70846 1000 2300000 23085498 5952579 560332 611855 395346 377575 104221 28926 896594 26368504 280253 10256 53267437 6341763 831365 36290845 46919451 599474 1104809 478234 80 790000 38836793 76353939 234365848 1704283 1268314 550845 0 740191 3868010 649446 0 4692706 4144594 759198 51439 214397 10884 1187895 1095464 3327548 2520921 83945840 555010 1339385 70846 10031654 1036197 2300000 27420783 8276676 12220108 5815100 835487 23134671 1713189 1788500 328620 12600774 6152459 210926 500 945 4807 400 174850 79401 714752 14430 64925 300 00 23737 162527 95883 161000 480079 165540 41547 182476 2684475 500726 50494 209590 10484 1013045 174442 2612796 321332 46876 525010 95810 248117 513294 443096 6066403 2349943 314854 793688 123284 504373 46472 740191 3868010 649446 956320 0 1444968 54734 932777 0 5180512 1187895 6943933 96978932 83504514 54666153 1257511 424999262 3455769 1013045 3108570 915813 10481278 123284 217578 174850 808583 281189 944049 182476 17570412 2937509 744820 211500 0 0 0 0 0 0 1444968 0 0 0 0 54734 0 0 0 0 0 932777 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 07-General Administration 1442434 49089 218567 2588725 5800 5331550 1710090 7926075 1722959 7954075 Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Capit al and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing 36 04.4 04.5 04.6 04.7 04.8 04.9 05.1 Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport Communication Other industries R Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. Waste management 501 307 337 332 337 347 365 501 332 358 501 306 307 312 325 329 501 307 308 357 602 305 501 305 313 365 MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Information and Communications MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Supply Ministry of Industry Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Irrigation MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Finance Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION05 01-Increase production 02 Infrastructure development Sector /Ministry 03 -Human development 04 Good governamce 05 -Crosscutting Total 2304107 287872 63958 790000 155911 105000 33480 34794300 2768255 69426446 415001 17905887 7809702 263461 25000 4311000 800 47930000 300000 17527 5308159 6110 1424163 49750 1527 438350 599153 8900000 2975702 700 858081 25380 7220000 49936 161643 1817767 16778 456718 12844 249440 38432 11079863 211579 17527 6738432 51277 438350 9499153 2768255 95557036 288461 4311000 47930800 300000 138480 4766925 1177644 1366262 64280 140619 8014831 0 0 160000 0 0 15250 0 13111 35584300 87103 2785782 40869 76380233 959858 19387618 7809702 408485 3761097 270000 82483 5930723 17478 2003439 38224 11531000 299376 599953 200075 56830000 126165 300000 105000 359155 189391 16740 471069 244599 14605 58800 378520 14010 282518 23634 25300 70363 1174559 294148 42963 364 74 3196050 68473 854736 226656 85615 160000 15250 0 0 270000 0 0 0 0 2872885 104578280 4439582 19603347 57929404 426165 5264560 50 15069989 70363 1511670 3232524 1149865 85615 16740 730273 437320 320162 25300 350422 428787 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 270000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 07-General Administration 12869 171555 28000 187600 12869 171555 28000 187600 1315271 2134754 Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing 37 05.2 05.5 05.6 06.1 06.2 06.3 06.6 07.1 07.2 Waste water management R Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. Housing development Community development Water supply Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services 501 313 357 329 501 313 329 331 332 347 305 347 501 329 340 347 365 313 347 365 501 365 370 MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Population and environment Ministry of Science & Technology MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Finance MInistry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES HEALTH 06 07 01-Increase production 02 Infrastructure development Sector /Ministry 03 -Human development 04 Good governamce 05 -Crosscutting Total 9177 21797 32984 334178 334178 4611014 200000 3047906 106683 190815 18927973 319272 2423200 384787 2139 78338 165122 985566 166728 156750 30000 34280 16096697 517000 720212 499727 294750 1255709 13283 1352979 599600 2073865 279809 39061 154272 85959 852792 5230 319622 65193 747964 9177 21797 32984 316427 17751 852792 5230 319622 813157 1366262 2673465 279809 193333 85959 64280 16613697 720212 794477 1255709 2139 243460 1152294 156750 4772931 200000 3047906 297498 21670445 384787 612951 813157 3232566 19384095 1395754 25324178 21967943 5256290 0 0 13111 0 796252 23126 0 0 0 819378 0 4611014 202139 861969 27027 3047906 13161 1075081 2181513 316178 2080455 599600 18955577 517000 381620 99846 185021 4477284 21221506 538 788 935022 2423200 1341668 678655 404787 24000 663861 44040 59200 324955 25467 121154 78609 77918 13111 796252 23126 0 0 50 0 3550 1061010 0 0 0 1064108 3074933 5666388 20072177 5143771 25118516 1341668 678655 5385882 1064560 0 51676132 48427137 350422 121154 78609 77918 428787 663861 44040 59200 199763 17600747 707901 245922 0 0 0 0 0 50 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3550 1061010 0 0 0 0 0 07-General Administration 151865 767677 178278 45896 96000 10773 1182 570610 684094 45150 647300 3846 1545036 100000 1143716 106773 1182 1947154 1548882 100000 107955 1648882 Capital and FinancingRecurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financi ng Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing 38 07.3 07.4 07.5 07.6 08.1 08.2 08.3 09.1 09.2 09.5 09.6 09.8 Hospital services Public health services R Health Health n.e.c. Recreational and sporting services Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. 306 370 314 345 370 601 365 370 370 350 343 325 365 358 350 350 350 350 350 Ministry of Supply Ministry of Health Ministry of Home Ministry of Defence Ministry of Health MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Health Ministry of Education Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION EDUCATION SOCIAL PROTECTION 08 09 10 01-Increase production 02 Infrastructure development Sector /Ministry 03 -Human development 04 Good governamce 05 -Crosscutting Total 2465079 2465079 612951 391445 400 3695379 171328 180500 49939 1500 132076 2300 174999 4597932 5493628 272920 7514232 6583717 530000 202408 24931 638713 29219040 259374 1462538 7000017490 3159952465079 315995 17490 70000 5493628 7787152 6583717 530000 202408 24931 638713 29219040 259374 1462538 391445 3695779 171328 180500 49939 1500 132076 2300 315995 17490 70000 227339 31579665 1780584 230439 135876 251982 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 174999 5210883 634793 538170 8548418 6000000 273320 19082854 6755045 530000 2400428 3390230 74870 370627 47837712 12398971 29351116 24778012 1464838 146372 40350 17463 316079 45200 90575 488421 538170 2622995 6000000 7873243 2000057 293077 237937 47197499 12398971 24428063 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 15721381 193 56174 6755045 530000 2400428 3465100 370627 47837712 12398971 29351116 24778012 1464838 0 0 0 6236155 115830649 37598589 9649586 7873243 2000057 293077 237937 47197499 12398971 24428063 186722 17463 316079 45200 90575 2531071 84024533 33554003 378742 90575 39978 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 07-General Administration 1784136 187906 Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing 39 10.4 10.7 10.8 10.9 Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R Social protection Social protection n.e.c. 365 370 301 365 352 371 314 340 Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare 01-Increase production 02 Infrastructure development Sector /Ministry 03 -Human development 04 Good governamce 05 -Crosscutting Total 40619709 3960 4790 201519 41713 1351720 23861 54716 350287 1351720 23861 405003 3960 4790 243232 41421435 92187775 261396528 96182519 39674200 0 0 0 0 9543560 1355680 287172 49144 32937592 363306 28651 256235 2320809 762 4386 34830 287172 32730499 358920 177412 0 0 0 0 1642852 32986736 391957 2577044 14185179 1048921354 287172 32730499 358920 177412 762 4386 34830 373670834 63153541 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 82,04,11,44 3,53,58,43,03 1,35,85,67,19 23,72,87,39 4,36,82,43,75 07-General Administration 46993 176266 1560877 2151 30065 155690 223259 1560877 32216 155690 4959732 11926342 16,88,60,74 Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Note: 1. Strategies are based on three years interim plan(2016/17-2018/19) Grand Total Strategy Total 40 1.1 1.2 1.3 Executive and legislative organs, financial and fiscal affairs, ex Foreign economic aid General services 101 102 202 206 208 301 305 306 313 326 327 332 347 352 356 365 501 503 504 601 602 357 210 301 305 314 325 326 329 President Deputy President Legislature Parliament Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Supply Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Science & Technology MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Irrigation Public Service Commission Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICE01 3,922,493 0 238,859 14,691,950 Function-wise Gender Responsive Budget (Including Financing), Fiscal Year 2016/17 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 13 Description 200,600 5,350 40,623 275,055 180,000 60,901 866,032 14,800 0 2,296,257 0 54,605 0 0 0 0 3,200,000 21,323,945 4,143,173 0 8,260,000 213,983 56,496 10,995 981,165 308,393 18,528 2,440 725 286,217 35,433 1,420,556 1,111,796 521,881 4,479,910 7,288,799 112,665 278,419 4,841,556 188,885 88,706 66,889 409,427 73,788 226,049 3,200,000 26,084,248 4,743,764 70,184,000 43,931,387 217,154 588,651 170,590 1,065,255 10,526,379 519,309 801,415 30,136 85,617 30,083 1,379,933 836,741 341,881 596,143 5,511,510 97,865 0 2,545,299 0 34,101 0 0 0 0 0 4,760,303 600,591 42,150,000 32,571,387 3,171 293,296 159,595 84,090 10,217,986 500,781 10,974 29,411 0 0 0 0 0 0 133,598 0 231,240 0 55,045 0 14,015 10,241 0 10,480 0 0 0 0 2,100,00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,550 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 747,747 0 47,179 0 133,840 0 52,874 399,186 73,788 144,854 0 0 0 28,034,000 1,000,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 784,451 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,822,866 29,912 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 69,715 0 0 0 0 0 0 238,859 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 1,000 0 0 30,633,468 0 3,446,148 2,554,619 0 2,867,550 91,541,454 3,171 12,134,274 40,921,341 213,983 1,423,838 169,574,375 217,154 20,110,669 442,105 66,824,307 6,093,844 121,510,395 61,855,360 271,417,961 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 41 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 2.1 2.2 2.5 3.1 Basic research R General public services General public services n.e.c. Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of government Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services 347 356 365 391 602 357 305 212 214 314 337 349 365 501 501 502 365 307 345 314 347 314 MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development National Planning Commission Secretariata MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Ministry of Home Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Industry Ministry of Defence Ministry of Home MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Home DEFENCE PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY 02 03 0 0 10,369,696 0 160,902 0 0 0 0 0 350,447 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description 0 0 27,325 17,771 0 46,018 0 101,320 0 0 10,200 0 0 130,000 1,000,000 18,008,660 0 223,421 319,320 92,800 0 661,560 666,447 884,055 253,947 1,104,485 3,500,000 48,236 10,201 591,524 167,696 54,023 20,833 615,525 10,295,000 130,000 1,000,000 35,337,101 33,245,624 409,845 35,479,835 103,079 52,202 28,301,281 0 0 226,622 611,519 0 2,218 0 490,204 0 0 10,633 0 0 0 0 17,328,441 0 186,424 707,021 10,279 0 2,640,093 277,700 37,089 0 49,211 2,500,000 0 380 0 0 35,770 0 615,525 20,000 0 0 0 0 0 3,084,800 0 49,940 3,269,567 388,747 846,966 0 425,984 1,000,000 0 9,821 0 0 18,253 0 0 70,000 0 0 0 32,646,61 7 0 31,368,694 0 2,262 21,730,061 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 438,105 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 164,696 0 0 0 10,205,000 0 0 0 160,902 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 0 3,000 0 438,105 0 0 0 0 0 9,821 88,253 0 32,646,617 31,368,694 0 2,262 21,730,061 0 380 671,295 0 0 3,084,800 0 49,940 3,269,567 2,218 0 500,837 17,328,441 0 893,445 10,279 0 2,640,093 46,018 0 241,520 19,008,660 0 542,741 92,800 0 661,560 48,236 10,201 11,874,601 36,337,101 33,245,624 35,889,680 103,079 52,202 28,301,281 0 2,276,333 31,370,956 22,767,939 3,134,740 3,410,634 903,724 10,137,137 635,541 2,678,029 36,044,961 41,620,519 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 42 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.6 4.1 4.2 4.3 Fire-protection services Law courts Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting Fuel and energy 314 204 216 218 311 371 314 301 314 349 301 306 330 352 365 371 305 312 327 329 336 352 357 365 501 Ministry of Home Courts Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Home Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Supply Ministry of Commerce Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Finance Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing ECONOMIC AFFAIRS04 0 0 0 350,447 50,038,880 8,407,528 6,096,443 66,381,114 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description 205 955,746 212,000 945 3,360 0 104,608 79,401 660,204 0 64,925 30,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,573,018 109,954 696,299 0 2,335,311 0 0 6,898 4,144,594 759,198 51,439 214,397 10,884 1,187,895 1,095,464 3,327,548 2,520,921 83,945,840 555,010 1,339,385 70,846 10,031,654 1,036,197 2,300,000 27,420,783 8,276,676 12,220,108 5,815,100 835,487 23,134,671 1,713,189 1,788,500 6,693 3,188,848 547,198 50,494 190,732 0 1,001,768 174,442 2,336,869 0 46,876 525,010 0 0 0 10,061 2,300,000 0 4,172,538 555,887 2,696,932 314,854 100,555 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,447 400 70,242 0 54,548 14,430 0 0 920,881 0 173,524 177,467 0 2,794,191 307,983 1,290,649 402,668 70,398 14,668,454 812,208 1,788,500 0 0 0 0 18,858 10,4 84 11,277 0 275,927 721,332 0 0 418,504 0 7,370,426 567,579 0 17,947,080 2,223,137 6,139,114 914,312 395,346 1,063,518 102,228 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 831,365 0 1,444,968 34,226,007 0 0 0 2,385,203 23,589 0 1,027,800 0 2,750,336 80 5,800 4,741,076 796,760 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10,256 0 340,191 49,608,032 0 0 70,846 102,501 257,501 0 5,651,712 0 1,374,168 1,104,809 49,089 225,757 1,993 0 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 2,276,333 36,634,799 9,321,852 30,938 0 29,342 11,277 997,259 8,356,509 28,784,735 127,043 0 1,847 70,242 68,978 1,271,872 22,135,051 27,092,332 6,693 3,977,272 1,001,768 2,511,311 581,947 10,140,766 270,487 205 1,172,051 104,608 739,605 94,925 4,714,582 21,048,910 6,898 5,180,512 1,187,895 6,943,933 96,978,932 83,504,514 54,666,153 46,725,498 54,021,964 177,869,000 17,976,134 62,025,552 424,999,262 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 43 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport Communication Other industries R Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. 307 308 331 501 307 337 332 337 347 365 501 332 358 501 306 307 312 325 329 501 307 308 357 602 305 501 Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Population and environment MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Information and Communications MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Supply Ministry of Industry Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Irrigation MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION05 0 44,940 1,527 1,791,796 0 0 0 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description 280,253 11,523,357 0 9,245,300 16,740 0 28,000 17,407,324 244,599 1,591,987 7,809,702 263,461 294,877 270,000 14,010 2,657,684 0 881,715 0 4,311,000 49,936 800 0 0 25,300 300,000 328,620 12,600,774 6,152,459 35,584,300 87,103 2,785,782 40,869 76,380,233 959,858 19,387,618 7,809,702 408,485 3,761,097 270,000 82,483 5,930,723 17,478 2,003,439 38,224 11,531,000 299,376 599,953 200,075 56,830,000 126,165 300,000 28,926 241,561 0 0 70,363 0 12,869 1,223,391 294,148 0 0 49,750 2,666,473 0 68,473 551,783 0 1,096,226 0 0 249,440 599,153 0 0 100,865 0 0 752,132 1,200 26,339,000 0 2,768,255 0 52,235,491 415,001 16,313,900 0 58,800 83,643 0 0 156,932 700 0 25,380 7,220,000 0 0 161,643 47,930,000 0 0 0 83,724 43,3 19 0 0 17,527 0 5,257,350 6,110 1,424,163 0 36,474 689,577 0 0 328,924 16,778 25,498 12,844 0 0 0 38,432 8,900,000 0 0 3,178 0 27,760 0 0 0 0 254,700 0 14,605 0 0 25,000 0 0 443,604 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 16,263 0 6,080,180 0 0 0 0 1,977 0 42,963 0 0 1,527 0 0 1,791,796 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 269,305 25,000 443,604 0 0 17,527 6,687,623 726,051 384,044 8,938,432 0 2,768,255 68,964,392 142,443 7,403,012 48,091,643 0 70,363 1,530,408 2,716,223 1,716,482 848,593 100,865 16,740 27,081,612 828,338 7,864,409 50,736 325,300 2,872,885 104,578,280 4,439,582 19,603,347 57,929,404 426,165 0 2,268,357 10,829,063 981,286 991,283 15,069,989 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 44 5.1 5.2 5.5 5.6 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.6 Waste management Waste water management R Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. Housing development Community development Water supply Housing and community amenities n.e.c. 305 313 365 501 313 357 329 501 313 329 331 332 347 305 347 501 329 340 347 365 313 347 365 501 Ministry of Finance Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Population and environment Ministry of Science & Technology MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Finance MInistry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES06 0 0 0 0 6,000 96,000 422,257 0 524,257 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description 0 187,600 155,911 80,000 0 0 5,230 0 0 0 451,007 99,150 12,385 0 3,769,484 0 0 0 0 720,212 1,225,000 0 0 320,000 105,000 359,155 189,391 4,611,014 202,139 861,969 27,027 3,047,906 13,161 1,075,081 2,181,513 316,178 2,080,455 599,600 18,955,577 517,000 381,620 99,846 185,021 4,477,284 21,221,506 538,788 935,022 2,423,200 105,000 171,555 33,480 0 0 0 21,797 0 0 0 422,330 217,028 10,096 599,600 612,706 0 0 0 0 279,809 1,740 0 0 0 0 0 0 4,531,014 200,000 852,792 0 3,047,906 50 890,232 637,874 0 669,195 0 12,991,074 517,000 65,193 0 106,683 2,487,365 16,023,972 499,727 0 2,103,200 0 0 0 0 2,139 9,177 0 0 13,111 184, 849 670,302 0 1,388,779 0 1,576,313 0 316,427 0 78,338 989,898 985,486 39,061 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,846 0 0 2,884,051 0 614,022 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6,000 0 0 96,000 0 0 101,257 0 321,000 0 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 0 0 3,846 3,498,073 0 0 11,316 0 2,257,041 1,576,313 1,384,663 1,024,547 85,959 4,531,014 1,052,792 3,047,906 2,197,351 13,508,074 2,659,241 18,626,899 1,255,709 310,035 0 21,797 649,454 1,212,306 279,809 1,740 0 423,511 0 5,230 562,542 3,769,484 720,212 1,545,000 0 5,264,560 1,064,108 3,074,933 5,666,388 20,072,177 5,143,771 25,118,516 1,341,668 3,501,919 4,071,482 36,049,923 1,493,855 6,034,696 51,676,132 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 45 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 7.6 8.1 8.2 8.3 9.1 9.2 Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services Hospital services Public health services R Health Health n.e.c. Recreational and sporting services Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education 365 370 306 370 314 345 370 601 365 370 370 350 343 325 365 358 350 350 Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Supply Ministry of Health Ministry of Home Ministry of Defence Ministry of Health MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Health Ministry of Education Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Education Ministry of Education HEALTH RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION EDUCATION 07 08 09 0 3,336,785 1,025,262 15,457,561 599,545 0 0 0 17,490 47,836,212 0 20,419,153 17,490 79,253,830 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description 0 0 0 0 34,218 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 15,425 632,074 49,939 44,500 0 0 1,341,668 678,655 174,999 5,210,883 634,793 538,170 8,548,418 6,000,000 273,320 19,082,854 6,755,045 530,000 2,400,428 3,390,230 74,870 370,627 47,837,712 12,398,971 0 0 0 0 134,871 0 0 6,000,000 0 0 0 530,000 313,314 2,758,156 24,931 113,576 0 0 1,255,709 443,987 0 314,071 112,154 0 412,425 0 0 4,716 171,328 0 182,538 0 0 700 0 0 85,959 234,668 174,999 1,261,147 353,550 538,170 7,091,361 0 0 202,834 5,984,172 0 1,889,151 0 0 124,361 0 12,398,971 0 0 0 298,880 0 0 19,370 0 400 3,690,663 0 0 0 0 0 70,000 1,50 0 0 0 0 0 3,336,785 0 0 1,025,262 0 272,920 15,184,641 599,545 0 0 0 0 17,490 47,836,212 0 Recurrent Total 0 298,880 19,370 3,691,063 0 0 0 0 70,000 1,500 0 234,668 1,436,146 7,983,081 202,834 5,984,172 0 1,889,151 0 124,361 0 12,398,971 443,987 314,071 524,579 4,716 171,328 0 182,538 0 700 0 0 0 0 6,134,871 0 0 530,000 313,314 2,783,087 113,576 0 0 0 0 34,218 0 0 0 15,425 682,013 44,500 0 0 678,655 5,385,882 15,721,381 19,356,174 6,755,045 530,000 2,400,428 3,465,100 370,627 47,837,712 12,398,971 4,009,313 70,000 142,716 15,840,901 2,013,512 36,220,210 1,458,681 183,238 83,735 6,664,871 3,209,977 130,158 34,218 741,938 0 48,427,137 6,236,155 115,830,649 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 46 9.5 9.6 9.8 10.4 10.7 10.8 10.9 Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R Social protection Social protection n.e.c. 350 350 350 365 370 301 365 352 371 314 340 Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare SOCIAL PROTECTION10 29,174,040 781,040 1,462,538 1,351,720 15,531 0 1,731,180 3,098,431 184,736,672 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description Total 0 0 0 0 0 2,151 0 4,386 0 0 0 29,351,116 24,778,012 1,464,838 1,355,680 287,172 49,144 32,937,592 363,306 28,651 256,235 2,320,809 0 130,158 0 0 0 46,993 0 358,920 0 0 0 0 83,735 0 0 0 0 25,827 0 4,790 0 42,533 45,000 23,776,239 0 0 287,172 0 32,891,234 0 23,861 0 412,112 132,076 6,840 2,300 3,960 0 0 5,000 0 0 201,519 189,700 29,174,040 781,040 1,462,538 1,351,720 0 0 15,531 0 0 54,716 1,676,464 Recurrent Total 132,076 6,840 2,300 3,960 5,000 0 391,219 45,000 23,776,239 0 287,172 32,891,234 23,861 412,112 0 83,735 0 0 25,827 4,790 42,533 0 130,158 0 0 46,993 358,920 0 0 0 0 0 2,151 4,386 0 29,351,116 24,778,012 1,464,838 1,642,852 32,986,736 391,957 2,577,044 400,179 33,614,379 73,150 405,913 6,537 37,598,589 57,568,063 269,014,007 239,186,008 163,413,450 135,003,154 1,048,921 ,354 Neutral Capital and Financing 242,304,735Grant Total 508,200,015 298,416,604 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 47 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description Recurrent Total Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Note : Gender Responsive Budget Classifications Basis of classification for Gender Responsive Budget are as follows : a)50 percent or more budget directly beneficial for women Dir ect Responsive b) 20 or more and less then 50 percent of budget directly beneficial for women Indirect Responsive c) Less than 20 Percent of budget beneficial for women Neutral Following indicators are used to assess the percentage above. Women Participation in formulation and implementation of Program Percentage Women Capacity Development Women's share in benefit Support in employment and income generating to women Quality reform in time consumption & minimization in of work load to women Indicators 20 20 30 20 10 100Total S.N. 1 2 3 4 5 Gender Responsive AmountCode Percent 1 2 3 Directly Indirectly Neutral 242304735 508200015 298416604 23.10 48.45 28.45 48 1.1 1.2 1.3 Executive and legislative organs, financial and fiscal affairs, external Foreign economic aid General services 101 102 202 206 208 301 305 306 313 326 327 332 347 352 356 365 501 503 504 601 602 357 210 301 305 314 325 326 329 347 President Deputy President Legislature Parliament Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Supply Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Science & Technology MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Irrigation Public Service Commission Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MInistry of Urban Development GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICE01 7,599,040 0 1,537,297 52,218,856 Function-wise Pro-poor budget (Including Financing), Fiscal Year 2016/17 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 14 Description 286,217 35,433 1,420,556 1,111,796 521,881 4,479,910 7,288,799 112,665 278,419 4,841,556 188,885 88,706 66,889 409,427 73,788 226,049 3,200,000 26,084,248 4,743,764 70,184,000 43,931,387 217,154 588,651 170,590 1,065,255 10,526,379 519,309 801,415 30,136 666,447 200,600 5,350 40,623 275,055 180,000 60,901 997,255 14,800 231,240 2,296,257 55,045 54,605 14,015 0 0 0 0 21,323,945 4,143,173 0 550,000 213,983 56,496 10,995 981,165 308,393 3,058 5,990 725 277,700 85,617 30,083 1,379,933 836,741 341,881 596,143 5,526,750 97,865 47,179 2,545,299 133,840 34,101 52,874 0 73,788 0 0 4,760,303 600,591 70,034,000 31,321,387 3,171 532,155 159,595 84,090 10,217,986 105,808 795,425 29,411 388,747 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,375 0 0 0 0 0 0 10,241 0 11,480 3, 200,000 0 0 0 9,810,000 0 0 0 0 0 15,470 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,822,866 762,419 0 0 0 0 0 0 399,186 0 214,569 0 0 0 150,000 2,250,000 0 0 0 0 0 394,973 0 0 0 Total 30,442,864 213,983 1,774,770 118,498,375 3,171 14,281,984 30,442,864 213,983 1,774,770 169,574,375 217,154 20,110,669 17,754,344 150,807,796 50,636,965 271,417,961 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 49 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 2.1 2.2 2.5 3.1 3.2 Basic research R General public services General public services n.e.c. Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of government Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services Fire-protection services 356 365 391 602 357 305 212 214 314 337 349 365 501 501 502 365 307 345 314 347 314 314 Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development National Planning Commission Secretariata MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Ministry of Home Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Industry Ministry of Defence Ministry of Home MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Home Ministry of Home DEFENCE PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY 02 03 0 0 10,275,000 0 32,807,519 0 0 0 0 6,693 0 2,110,968 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description 884,055 253,947 1,104,485 3,500,000 48,236 10,201 591,524 167,696 54,023 20,833 615,525 10,295,000 130,000 1,000,000 35,337,101 33,245,624 409,845 35,479,835 103,079 52,202 28,301,281 6,898 37,089 27,325 65,834 0 46,018 380 101,320 3,000 35, 770 10,200 0 0 0 0 18,008,660 0 223,421 3,404,120 92,800 49,940 3,931,127 0 846,966 226,622 895,179 0 2,218 9,821 490,204 164,696 18,253 10,633 0 0 0 0 17,328,441 0 186,424 32,075,715 10,279 2,262 24,370,154 0 0 0 1,148 2,500,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 615,525 20,000 130,000 1,000,000 0 438,105 0 0 0 0 0 205 0 0 142,324 1,000,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10,275,000 0 0 0 32,807,519 0 0 0 0 0 6,693 Total 46,018 380 150,290 18,008,660 0 3,627,541 92,800 49,940 3,931,127 0 2,218 9,821 683,786 17,328,441 0 32,262,139 10,279 2,262 24,370,154 0 46,018 380 150,290 18,008,660 0 3,627,541 92,800 49,940 3, 931,127 0 48,236 10,201 11,874,601 36,337,101 33,245,624 35,889,680 103,079 52,202 28,301,281 6,898 0 2,005,485 32,274,680 31,144,555 3,770,281 6,359,511 36,044,961 41,620,519 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 50 3.3 3.4 3.6 4.1 4.2 4.3 Law courts Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting Fuel and energy 204 216 218 311 371 314 301 314 349 301 306 330 352 365 371 305 312 327 329 336 352 357 365 501 307 308 331 Courts Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Home Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Supply Ministry of Commerce Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Finance Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Population and environment ECONOMIC AFFAIRS04 29,415 0 2,074,860 8,939,084 41,355,144 6,252,667 75,978,511 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description 4,144,594 759,198 51,439 214,397 10,884 1,187,895 1,095,464 3,327,548 2,520,921 83,945,840 555,010 1,339,385 70,846 10,031,654 1,036,197 2,300,000 27,420,783 8,276,676 12,220,108 5,815,100 835,487 23,134,671 1,713,189 1,788,500 328,620 12,600,774 6,152,459 955,746 212,000 945 3, 472 400 174,850 910,766 153,775 16,430 34,226,007 0 25,436 0 0 162,527 0 78,479 144,641 434,653 558,085 0 61,256 0 0 280,253 10,422,172 0 3,188,848 547,198 50,494 180,175 10,484 1,013,045 184,698 1,094,331 505,128 49,608,032 0 182,103 0 0 248,117 0 125,106 457,544 1,800,484 2,623,102 314,854 656,795 0 0 28,926 212,380 0 0 0 0 1,335 0 0 0 560,977 1,442,968 64,925 30,000 895,445 0 2,558,727 38,529 0 3,743,512 1,736,360 3,716,286 540,962 76,198 21,683,585 1,608,968 1,788,500 3,178 1,853,317 28,960 0 0 0 29,415 0 0 0 1,518,465 556,395 46,876 525,010 236,401 70,846 7,472,927 587,024 2,300,000 23,473,686 5,938,131 6,268,685 2,092,951 444,435 733,035 104,221 0 16,263 112,905 6, 123,499 Total 1,172,563 174,850 1,080,971 34,413,970 1,277,114 19,312,425 3,977,199 1,013,045 1,784,157 50,038,252 5,977,885 241,306 1,172,563 174,850 1,080,971 34,413,970 1,277,114 19,312,425 5,180,512 1,187,895 6,943,933 96,978,932 83,504,514 54,666,153 211,246,059 62,400,701 75,373,991 424,999,262 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 51 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 5.1 Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport Communication Other industries R Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. Waste management 501 307 337 332 337 347 365 501 332 358 501 306 307 312 325 329 501 307 308 357 602 305 501 305 313 365 MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Information and Communications MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Supply Ministry of Industry Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Irrigation MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Finance Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION05 17,527 6,965,331 1,527 2,660,206 9,787,025 0 0 640,233 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description 35,584,300 87,103 2,785,782 40,869 76,380,233 959,858 19,387,618 7,809,702 408,485 3,761,097 270,000 82,483 5,930,723 17,478 2,003,439 38,224 11,531,000 299,376 599,953 200,075 56,830,000 126,165 300,000 105,000 359,155 189, 391 8,610,000 16,740 0 28,000 11,829,159 309,599 826,901 6,500,000 322,261 378,520 0 14,010 96,358 0 23,634 0 0 0 0 0 0 25,300 0 0 187,600 155,911 0 70,363 0 12,869 967,469 295,823 21,479 0 86,224 3,356,050 0 68,473 498,637 0 665,006 0 0 0 0 0 0 100,865 0 105,000 171,555 33,480 26,974,300 0 2,768,255 0 58,068,356 350,001 17,093,591 1,309,702 0 25,000 270,000 0 3,161,862 700 858,081 25,380 11,531,000 49,936 800 161,643 47,930,000 0 300,000 0 0 0 0 0 17,527 0 5,515,249 4,435 1,445,647 0 0 1,527 0 0 2,173,866 16,778 456,718 12,844 0 249,440 599,153 38,432 8,900,000 0 0 0 0 0 To tal 16,740 19,493,659 700,781 134,002 0 25,300 423,511 70,363 1,297,640 3,442,274 1,232,116 0 100,865 310,035 16,740 19,493,659 700,781 134,002 0 25,300 423,511 2,872,885 104,578,280 4,439,582 19,603,347 57,929,404 426,165 5,264,560 9,327,174 2,609,410 2,493,172 15,069,989 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 52 5.2 5.5 5.6 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.6 7.1 7.2 Waste water management R Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. Housing development Community development Water supply Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services 501 313 357 329 501 313 329 331 332 347 305 347 501 329 340 347 365 313 347 365 501 365 370 MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Population and environment Ministry of Science & Technology MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Finance MInistry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES HEALTH 06 07 9,177 21,797 609,259 47,950 588,411 625,080 85,959 234,668 4,772,931 1,347,400 35,896,334 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description 4,611,014 202,139 861,969 27,027 3,047,906 13,161 1,075,081 2,181,513 316,178 2,080,455 599,600 18,955,577 517,000 381,620 99,846 185,021 4,477,284 21,221,506 538,788 935,022 2,423,200 1, 341,668 678,655 80,000 200,000 0 0 0 50 0 1,088,881 99,150 681,580 0 14,866,514 517,000 0 3,846 0 723,762 8,863,930 499,727 0 0 0 0 0 2,139 0 0 0 13,111 0 668,222 217,028 1,398,875 599,600 2,147,069 0 0 96,000 0 1,076,061 784,403 39,061 0 0 0 0 4,531,014 0 852,792 5,230 3,047,906 0 890,232 0 0 0 0 1,894,044 0 65,193 0 106,683 2,483,815 11,269,093 0 614,022 2,423,200 1,255,709 443,987 0 0 9,177 21,797 0 0 184,849 424,410 0 0 0 47,950 0 316,427 0 78,338 193,646 304,080 0 321,000 0 85,959 234,668 Total 200,000 0 1,869,661 15,383,514 727,608 9,363,657 0 0 0 2, 139 0 2,297,236 2,746,669 1,172,061 823,464 0 0 0 200,000 0 1,869,661 15,383,514 727,608 9,363,657 0 0 0 1,064,108 3,074,933 5,666,388 20,072,177 5,143,771 25,118,516 1,341,668 678,655 5,385,882 20,111,759 5,355,840 4,742,194 7,028,591 25,474,779 146,372 51,676,132 48,427,137 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 53 7.3 7.4 7.5 7.6 8.1 8.2 8.3 9.1 9.2 9.5 9.6 9.8 Hospital services Public health services R Health Health n.e.c. Recreational and sporting services Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. 306 370 314 345 370 601 365 370 370 350 343 325 365 358 350 350 350 350 350 Ministry of Supply Ministry of Health Ministry of Home Ministry of Defence Ministry of Health MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Health Ministry of Education Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION EDUCATION SOCIAL PROTECTION 08 09 10 8,114,623 15,660,395 6,583,717 530,000 167,900 1,071,089 17,490 47,836,212 12,398,971 29,219,040 24,687,437 1,462,538 1,256,479 115,604,198 36,692,810 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description 174,999 5,210,883 634,793 538,170 8,548,418 6,000,000 273,320 19,082,854 6,755,045 530,000 2,400,428 3,390,230 74,870 370,627 47,837,712 12,398,971 29,351,116 24,778,012 1,464,838 0 0 146,372 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 17,463 632,074 49,939 45,200 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 488,421 538,170 2, 000 6,000,000 0 0 0 0 2,034,565 1,687,067 24,931 237,937 0 0 0 0 0 0 612,951 0 0 431,795 0 400 3,695,379 171,328 0 180,500 0 0 70,000 1,500 0 132,076 90,575 2,300 174,999 4,597,932 0 0 8,114,623 0 272,920 15,387,475 6,583,717 530,000 167,900 1,071,089 0 17,490 47,836,212 12,398,971 29,219,040 24,687,437 1,462,538 Total 146,372 0 0 0 17,463 682,013 45,200 0 0 0 0 0 7,028,591 0 0 0 2,034,565 1,711,998 237,937 0 0 0 0 0 146,372 0 0 0 17,463 682,013 45,200 0 0 0 0 0 15,721,381 19,356,174 6,755,045 530,000 2,400,428 3,465,100 370,627 47,837,712 12,398,971 29,351,116 24,778,012 1,464,838 250,500 226,451 473,329 3,984,500 0 425,913 744,676 0 6,537 6,236,155 115,830,649 37,598,589 Recu rrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 54 10.4 10.7 10.8 10.9 Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R Social protection Social protection n.e.c. 365 370 301 365 352 371 314 340 Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare 1,638,892 32,906,765 23,861 2,123,292 321,745,789 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description Total 1,355,680 287,172 49,144 32,937,592 363,306 28,651 256,235 2,320,809 0 0 2,151 0 4,386 0 0 0 0 0 46,993 0 358,920 0 0 20,000 3,960 0 0 30,827 0 4,790 201,519 232,233 1,351,720 287,172 0 32,906,765 0 23,861 54,716 2,068,576 Total 0 2,151 4,386 0 0 46,993 358,920 20,000 0 2,151 4,386 0 1,642,852 32,986,736 391,957 2,577,044 266,750,941 295,418,340 165,006,284 1,048,921,354 588,496,730Grant Total 460,424,624 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Note : Basis of classification for Pro-poor budget are as follows : Description Classification Budget Directly helps in poverty reduction Pro-poor Budget Budget Indirectly helps in poverty reduction Neutral Budget Pro Poor Indicators: Investment in rural sector Income generation program in rural area. Capacity enhancement program in rural area. Budget allocated for social mobilization. Expenditure focusing on poverty reduction. Grant for local bodies. Social security Programs. Investment in social sector specially for education,health etc. Pro-Poor AmountCode Percent 1 2 ProPoor Non ProPoor 588496730 460424624 56.1 43.9 55 Multilateral Agencies 174,373,830 Asian Development Bank International Development Association (World Bank) International Monetary Fund Nordic Development Fund Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC ) Fund Saudi Development Fund United Nations Inrenational Fund for Agricultural Development SSDP ADB General ADBPool Fund IDA General WB GEF WB Trust Fund IDA Pool Fund IMF NDF OFID SAARC Fund UNDP UNFPA UNICEF UNHABITAT ILO WHO WFP IFAD SSDP 2,470,567 431 55,844 13,646 46,305 157,529 5,963,385 198,498 12,750,776 454,323 106,360 26,527 203,550 69,466 1,122,788 3,459,031 4,537,433 6,000 773,053 65,000 340,136 123,611 545,829 103,425 1,195,836 8,200 60,000 202,465 128,736 192,046 1,305 500 235,951 370,605 19,124,436 22,000,000 10,000,000 22,326,109 27,560,357 1,867,406 784,299 4,241,009 16,936,923 2,206,419 10,677,000 522,600 138,115 71,360,158 204,498 65,291,536 65,000 11,527,303 106,360 10,000,000 123,611 2,390,006 40,173 749,379 149,730 1,589,316 8,200 60,000 202,465 568,807 2,237,248 7,700,040 12,972,690 204,498 13,524,760 65,000 850,303 106,360 123,611 40,173 749,379 149,730 1,589,316 8,200 60,000 202,465 568,807 1,314,834 3,459,031 58,387,468 51,766,776 10,677,000 10,000,000 2,390,006 922,414 4,241,009 71,564,656 76,990,199 10,000,000 123,611 2,390,006 40,173 3,327,897 2,237,248 7,700,040 58,387,468 62,443,776 10,000,000 2,390,006 922,4 14 4,241,009 13,177,188 14,546,423 123,611 40,173 3,327,897 1,314,834 3,459,031 16,936,923 12,883,419 522,600 138,115 22,326,109 27,560,357 1,867,406 784,299 4,241,009 19,124,436 22,000,000 10,000,000 1,305 500 606,556 4,543,433 1,178,189 123,611 2,244,491 192,046 6,161,883 13,311,459 26,527 273,016 1,122,788 3,459,031 2,470,567 56,275 13,646 203,834 138,384,67335,989,157 30,481,057 56,779,180 51,124,436608,361 8,281,770 24,354,7042,744,322 Cash Reimb.Direct KindTotalTotal Grant Loan Foreign Grant and Loan Summary (Rs. in '000) Annex 15 Reimb.DirectDirect TotalDonor Agencies Fiscal Year 2016/17 56 Bilateral-Donors (Budget) 116,682,199 China Denmark Finland Germany India Japan Korea Kuwait Development Fund Netherland Norway Switzerland China General China Exim Bank DenmarkGeneral Finland General Germany GIZ Germany KFW India General India Exim Bank Japan General Japan JICA Japan -KR2 Japan – KR Korea KOICA KFAED Netherlands General Norway General Switzerland General Switzerland SDC Switzerland HELVETAS 530,000 461,600 835,000 330,000 130,000 8,005 63,923 28,973,840 1,150,000 25,916 900,000 2,686,269 537,635 3,000 3,401,745 385,655 600,000 850,000 1,300 652,956 1,000 2,352,862 44,000 3,000 15,402,393 286,501 4,860,000 550,000 400,000 32,719,882 1,739,700 660,041 1,430,000 4,860,000 2,686,269 537,635 3,000 4,413,345 29,759,495 32,719,882 1,739,700 18,647,434 330,000 133,000 850,000 286,501 1,300 660,961 1,000 2,442,701 44,000 1,430,000 2,686,269 537,635 3,000 3,863,345 29,359,495 2,585,000 330,000 133,000 850,000 1,300 660,961 1,000 2,442,701 44,000 4,860,000 550,000 400,000 32,719,882 1,739,700 16,062,434 286,501 6,290,000 2,686,269 537,635 4,416,345 62,479,377 20,850,134 850,000 286,501 1,300 660,961 2,619,690 4,860,000 550,000 33,119,882 17,802,134 286,501 1,430,000 2,686,269 537,635 3,866,345 29,359,495 3,048,000 850,000 1,300 660,961 2,619,690 4,860,000 550,000 33,119,882 2,399,741 15,402,393 286,501 3,000 900,000 2,686 ,269 537,635 3,404,745 385,655 600,000 850,000 1,300 652,956 2,529,851 28,973,840 1,150,000 25,916 530,000 461,600 1,295,000 8,005 63,923 57,331,06459,351,135 40,929,623 16,401,441 3,000 13,532,329 31,655,99814,159,808 Cash Reimb.Direct KindTotalTotal Grant Loan Reimb.DirectDirect TotalDonor Agencies 57 Bilateral-Donors (Budget) Basket Funds 116,682,199 11,556,119 Switzerland Saudi Development Fund United Kingdom United States of America European Union Pooled Funds Plan International Care Nepal Global Alliance Against Vaccination and Immunization Save the Children Donor Pool Fund-Health One Heart World Wide Heifer Project International in Nepal Switzerland/DFID/EU Saudi Fund UK General USAID General EU General EU Pool Fund GEFMATGeneral Reconstruction Pool Fund GEFMATSave The Children Plan International General Care Nepal General Gavi General Save the Children Donor Pool Fund-Health One Heart World Wide 801,280 11,000,000 171,607 1,500,000 33,254 31,055 300,000 971,536 367,477 167,229 7,285,200 131,989 618,064 310,887 44,967 10,000 140,621 52,143 21,100 15,440 13,267 3,622 452,806 336,931 1,137,345 712,547 131,989 712,547 2,390,880 678,364 11,212,196 10,000 765,034 1,500,000 422,328 21,100 15,440 1,168,400 13,267 7,585,200 3,622 131,989 2,390,880 678,364 11,212,196 10,000 765,034 1,500,000 422,328 21,100 15,440 1,168,400 13,267 7,585,200 3,622 712,547 2,619,690 712,547 2,390,880 678,364 11,222,196 2,687,362 21,100 15,440 1,168,400 13,267 7,585,200 3,622 61,728 712,547 2,619,690 2,390,880 678,364 11,222,196 2,687,362 21,100 15,440 1,168,400 13,267 7,585,200 3,622 61,728 712,547 789,737 1,137,345 618,064 310,887 54,967 192,764 21,100 15,440 13,267 3,622 61,728 971,536 367,477 167,229 7,285,200 801,280 11,000,000 1,704,861 31,055 300,000 57,331,06459,351,135 11,556,119 1,927,082 307,921 7,285,2002,035,916 Cash Reimb.Direct KindTotalTotal Grant Loan Reimb.DirectDirect TotalDonor Agencies 58 Basket Funds 11,556,119 Heifer Project International in Nepal Heifer Project International in Nepal 61,72861,728 61,728 61,728 61,728 11,556,119 302,612,148 195,715,737106,896,411Grant Total 71,410,680 73,180,62151,124,4362,538,44322,122,020 63,295,90218,940,046 Cash Reimb.Direct KindTotalTotal Grant Loan Reimb.DirectDirectTotalDonor Agencies 59 1.1 1.2 1.3 Executive and legislative organs, financial and fiscal affairs, ex Foreign economic aid General services 101 102 202 206 208 301 305 306 313 326 327 332 347 352 356 365 501 503 504 601 602 357 210 301 305 314 325 326 329 President Deputy President Legislature Parliament Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Supply Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Science & Technology MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Irrigation Public Service Commission Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICE01 47,179 0 0 210,299 Climate Budget , Fiscal Year 2016/17 Highly Relevant Relevant (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 16 Description 200,600 5,350 40,623 275,055 180,000 60,901 999,630 14,800 0 2,296,257 55,045 54,605 14,015 10,241 0 11,480 3,200,000 21,323,945 4,143,173 0 10,360,000 0 56,496 10,995 981,165 308,393 18,528 5,990 0 286,217 35,433 1,420,556 1,111,796 521,881 4,479,910 7,288,799 112,665 278,419 4,841,556 188,885 88,706 66,889 409,427 73,788 226,049 3,200,000 26,084,248 4,743,764 70,184,000 43,931,387 217,154 588,651 170,590 1,065,255 10,526,379 519,309 801,415 30,136 85,617 30,083 1,379,933 836,741 341,881 4,419,009 6,289,169 97,865 0 2,545,299 133,840 34,101 52,874 399,186 73,788 214,569 0 4,760,303 600,591 70,184,000 33,571,387 0 532,155 159,595 84,090 10,217,986 500,781 795,425 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 213,983 0 0 0 0 0 0 725 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,17 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 29,411 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 231,240 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 47,179 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 213,983 725 0 3,171 29,411 0 213,983 725 126,050,236 0 15,789,870 43,245,720 0 4,290,663 169,574,375 217,154 20,110,669 715,363 32,582 214,708 202,783,771 67,461,238 271,417,961 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 60 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 2.1 2.2 2.5 3.1 Basic research R General public services General public services n.e.c. Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of government Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services 347 356 365 391 602 357 305 212 214 314 337 349 365 501 501 502 365 307 345 314 347 MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development National Planning Commission Secretariata MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Ministry of Home Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Industry Ministry of Defence Ministry of Home MInistry of Urban Development DEFENCE PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY 02 03 2,218 0 0 0 160,902 0 0 0 0 0 0 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 277,700 37,089 27,325 66,982 2,500,000 0 380 101,320 3,000 35,770 10,200 615,525 20,000 130,000 1,000,000 18,008,660 0 223,421 3,404,120 92,800 49,940 666,447 884,055 253,947 1,104,485 3,500,000 48,236 10,201 591,524 167,696 54,023 20,833 615,525 10,295,000 130,000 1,000,000 35,337,101 33,245,624 409,845 35,479,835 103,079 52,202 388,747 846,966 226,622 1,037,503 1,000,000 0 9,821 490,204 164,696 18,253 10,633 0 10,275,000 0 0 17,328,441 32,646,617 186,424 32,075,715 10,279 2,262 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 46,018 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 438, 105 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,218 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 160,902 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 9,821 10,958,786 17,328,441 32,646,617 32,262,139 10,279 2,262 24,370,154 0 380 915,815 19,008,660 0 3,627,541 92,800 49,940 3,931,127 48,236 10,201 11,874,601 36,337,101 33,245,624 35,889,680 103,079 52,202 28,301,281 0 0 0 0 0 0 32,274,680 33,255,523 3,770,281 8,364,996 36,044,961 41,620,519 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 61 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.6 4.1 4.2 Fire-protection services Law courts Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting 314 314 204 216 218 311 371 314 301 314 349 301 306 330 352 365 371 305 312 327 329 336 352 357 365 501 Ministry of Home Ministry of Home Courts Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Home Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Supply Ministry of Commerce Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Finance Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing ECONOMIC AFFAIRS04 0 0 0 0 0 1,776,424 8,072,887 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 3,931,127 205 955,746 212,000 945 4,807 400 174,850 910,766 714,752 1,459,398 34,290,932 30,000 920,881 0 2,558,727 201,056 0 1,767,162 259,231 480,079 1,099,047 76,198 1,565,156 0 0 28,301,281 6,898 4,144,594 759,198 51,439 214,397 10,884 1,187,895 1,095,464 3,327,548 2,520,921 83,945,840 555,010 1,339,385 70,846 10,031,654 1,036,197 2,300,000 27,420,783 8,276,676 12,220,108 5,815,100 835,487 23,134,671 1,713,189 1,788,500 24,370,154 6,693 3,188,848 547,198 50,494 209,590 10,484 1,013,045 184,698 2,612,796 1,061,523 49,654,908 525,010 418,504 70,846 7,472,927 825,080 2,300,000 9,431,520 1,547,153 6,066,403 4,716,053 759,289 913,233 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,013,932 1,621,770 287,547 0 0 9,567,811 0 1,788,500 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10,061 0 13,9 11,697 4,848,522 878,275 0 0 184,460 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 40,897 0 3,383,313 0 0 10,611,874 1,608,968 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 255,575 0 1,124,491 0 0 292,137 104,221 0 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 0 0 15,279,560 0 0 0 0 10,061 19,822,954 0 0 0 0 0 15,279,560 6,693 4,006,614 1,013,045 3,859,017 58,967,275 25,733,651 205 1,173,898 174,850 3,084,916 38,001,596 5,246,873 6,898 5,180,512 1,187,895 6,943,933 96,978,932 83,504,514 25,412,591 29,440,273 93,639,525 100,866,052 167,567,934 424,999,262 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 62 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 Fuel and energy Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport Communication Other industries R Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. 307 308 331 501 307 337 332 337 347 365 501 332 358 501 306 307 312 325 329 501 307 308 357 602 305 501 Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Population and environment MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Information and Communications MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Supply Ministry of Industry Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Irrigation MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing 6,258,031 0 0 0 0 38,432 0 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 280,253 5,151,731 0 16,962,300 16,740 2,768,255 28,000 63,259,487 309,599 17,920,492 7,809,702 322,261 403,520 270,000 14,010 3,258,220 700 881,715 25,380 4,311,000 0 800 0 0 25,300 300,000 328,620 12,600,774 6,152,459 35,584,300 87,103 2,785,782 40,869 76,380,233 959,858 19,387,618 7,809,702 408,485 3,761,097 270,000 82,483 5,930,723 17,478 2,003,439 38,224 11,531,000 299,376 599,953 200,075 56,830,000 126,165 300,000 28,926 207,016 0 0 70,363 17,527 12,869 6,467,685 295,823 1,467,126 0 86,224 3,357,577 0 68,473 2,672,503 16,778 683,374 12,844 0 0 599,153 0 0 100,865 0 0 0 0 16,172,000 0 0 0 6,638,028 350,001 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7,220,000 49,936 0 0 47,930,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 15,033 4,43 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 438,350 0 0 249,440 0 0 8,900,000 0 0 3,178 7,123,758 28,960 2,450,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 161,643 0 0 0 16,263 118,269 6,123,499 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 38,432 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 16,172,000 0 6,988,029 0 7,220,000 47,979,936 0 0 0 19,468 0 438,350 9,149,440 0 16,172,000 0 6,988,029 0 7,220,000 47,979,936 0 235,942 87,890 8,243,503 3,443,801 3,453,972 599,153 100,865 22,394,284 2,784,995 89,327,280 995,781 8,491,025 800 325,300 54,666,153 2,872,885 104,578,280 4,439,582 19,603,347 57,929,404 426,165 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 63 5.1 5.2 5.5 5.6 6.1 6.2 6.3 Waste management Waste water management R Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. Housing development Community development Water supply 305 313 365 501 313 357 329 501 313 329 331 332 347 305 347 501 329 340 347 365 313 347 365 501 Ministry of Finance Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Population and environment Ministry of Science & Technology MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Finance MInistry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES 05 06 310,035 0 21,797 978,549 599,600 0 1,249,160 1,310,381 1,848,760 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 401,392 99,150 0 0 15,068,416 517,000 0 3,846 106,683 2,265,248 0 499,727 0 0 105,000 359,155 189,391 4,611,014 202,139 861,969 27,027 3,047,906 13,161 1,075,081 2,181,513 316,178 2,080,455 599,600 18,955,577 517,000 381,620 99,846 185,021 4,477,284 21,221,506 538,788 935,022 2,423,200 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 199,150 217,028 0 0 1,760,225 0 0 96,000 78,338 450,600 0 39,061 0 0 0 0 0 4,531,014 200,000 852,792 0 0 0 319,622 3,395 0 34,280 0 1,692,142 0 65,193 0 0 942,329 1,985,151 0 0 2,282,700 0 0 0 0 2,139 9,177 0 0 0 32,984 125, 805 0 1,352,979 0 434,794 0 316,427 0 0 819,107 160,323 0 0 0 0 187,600 155,911 80,000 0 0 5,230 3,047,906 50 570,610 684,094 0 647,300 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 18,147,872 0 614,022 140,500 105,000 171,555 33,480 0 0 0 21,797 0 13,111 151,865 767,677 0 45,896 599,600 0 0 0 0 0 0 928,160 0 321,000 0 Recurrent Total 4,531,014 1,052,792 0 357,297 1,692,142 1,007,522 4,267,851 0 11,316 0 1,511,768 434,794 1,135,534 160,323 4,531,014 1,052,792 0 357,297 1,692,142 1,007,522 4,267,851 0 0 0 416,178 1,760,225 624,938 39,061 0 0 0 500,542 15,585,416 2,375,777 499,727 5,264,560 1,064,108 3,074,933 5,666,388 20,072,177 5,143,771 25,118,516 5,378,701 18,902,394 1,523,084 1,730,651 5,941,103 6,967,515 416,178 2,510,183 500,542 19,716,629 15,069,989 51,676,132 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 64 6.6 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 7.6 8.1 8.2 8.3 9.1 9.2 Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services Hospital services Public health services R Health Health n.e.c. Recreational and sporting services Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education 365 370 306 370 314 345 370 601 365 370 370 350 343 325 365 358 350 Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Supply Ministry of Health Ministry of Home Ministry of Defence Ministry of Health MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Health Ministry of Education Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Education HEALTH RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION EDUCATION 07 08 09 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 1,255,709 443,987 0 612,951 146,372 0 431,795 0 0 3,695,379 171,328 0 197,963 632,074 49,939 115,200 1,500 1,341,668 678,655 174,999 5,210,883 634,793 538,170 8,548,418 6,000,000 273,320 19,082,854 6,755,045 530,000 2,400,428 3,390,230 74,870 370,627 47,837,712 85,959 234,668 174,999 4,597,932 488,421 538,170 8,116,623 6,000,000 0 15,387,475 6,583,717 530,000 2,202,465 2,758,156 24,931 255,427 47,836,212 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 400 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 272,920 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 0 400 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 272,920 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 400 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 85,959 234,668 4,772,931 15,143,214 15,387,475 6,583,717 530,000 2,202,465 2,783,087 255,427 47,836,212 12,398,971 1,255,709 443,987 612,951 578,167 3,695,379 171,328 0 197,963 682,013 115,200 1,500 0 1,341,668 678,655 5,385,882 15,721,381 19,356,174 6,755,045 530,000 2,400,428 3,465,100 370,627 47,837,712 12,398,971 0 0 0 272,920 0 0 400 0 0 42,652,005 5,240,979 115,604,198 5,501,812 995,176 226,451 48,427,137 6,236,155 115,830,649 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 65 9.5 9.6 9.8 10.4 10.7 10.8 10.9 Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R Social protection Social protection n.e.c. 350 350 350 350 365 370 301 365 352 371 314 340 Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare SOCIAL PROTECTION10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 11,442,327 Highly Relevant Relevant Description Total 0 132,076 90,575 2,300 3,960 0 2,151 30,827 4,386 4,790 201,519 232,233 12,398,971 29,351,116 24,778,012 1,464,838 1,355,680 287,172 49,144 32,937,592 363,306 28,651 256,235 2,320,809 12,398,971 29,219,040 24,687,437 1,462,538 1,351,720 287,172 46,993 32,906,765 358,920 23,861 54,716 2,088,576 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 29,219,040 24,687,437 1,462,538 1,638,892 32,953,758 382,781 2,143,292 132,076 90,575 2,300 3,960 32,978 9,176 433,752 29,351,116 24,778,012 1,464,838 1,642,852 32,986,736 391,957 2,577,044 0 0 0 37,118,723 479,866 37,598,589 50,409,049 32,999,510 106,763,251 572,722,292 274,584,925 1,048,921, 354 Neutral Capital and Financing 61,851,376Grant Total 139,762,761 847,307,217 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Description AmountCode Percent 1 2 3 Directly Indirectly Neutral 61851376 139762761 847307217 5.90 13.32 80.78 66 2015/16 2016/172014/15 Legislature Parliament Courts Office of the Auditor General Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Supply Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Commerce Ministry of Population and environment Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministr y of Youth and Sports Ministry of Defence MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Education Ministry of Cooperative and poverty 20,00 3,84,29 2,40 9,64,49,51 1,05,41,98 42,68,00 31,31,00 75,10 1,92,50 8,78,88,99 71,88 17,12,33 31,39,32 1,06,90 1,88,28,37 51,29,05 9,08 64,31,60 24,89,10 2,50,00 33,23,81 74,63,25 30,25 33,88,14 14,25,81 61,17,64,85 48,48,06 0 2,71,94 0 1,92,05,70 23,06,75 0 0 1,73,14,64 0 96,88,32 0 4,80,00 1,19,67,54 0 18,35,21 83,35,78 0 3,50,49,10 0 4,21,36,46 9,85,37 60,47,18 0 2,54,61,09 1,06,32,77 4,74,50,21 4,24,28 20,00 6,56,23 2,40 11,56,55,21 1,28,48,73 42,68,00 31,31,00 1,73,89,74 1,92,50 9,75,77,31 71,88 21,92,33 1,51,06,86 1,06,90 2,06,63,58 1,34,64,83 9,08 4,14,80,70 24,89,10 4,23,86,46 43,09,18 1,35,10,43 30,25 2,88,49,23 1,20,58,58 65,92,15,06 52,72,34 0 4,41,00 2,35 7,37,00,39 2,51,28,29 38,63,99 33,69,45 0 1,72,97 9,66,08,25 90,04 26,75,03 57,79,38 2,00,21 1,87,59,27 18,11,11 1,08 66,94,47 34,59,04 2,45,00 42,11,71 82,15,16 55, 49 32,54,64 91,15,95 61,84,25,68 40,03,08 0 1,61,70 0 3,03,07,29 54,63,71 0 0 58,80,00 1,71,50 1,74,76,06 0 5,70,12 1,69,02,37 0 43,26,72 4,81,06 33,60 4,34,31,76 0 3,86,57,35 11,66,24 90,29,10 0 3,59,50,47 13,82,25 12,01,62,23 9,80,00 0 6,02,70 2,35 10,40,07,68 3,05,92,00 38,63,99 33,69,45 58,80,00 3,44,47 11,40,84,31 90,04 32,45,15 2,26,81,75 2,00,21 2,30,85,99 22,92,17 34,68 5,01,26,23 34,59,04 3,89,02,35 53,77,95 1,72,44,26 55,49 3,92,05,11 1,04,98,20 73,85,87,91 49,83,08 Revised Estimate Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total 0 4,50,00 2,40 62,29,21 3,87,54,70 42,49,99 48,41,68 0 3,03,50 8,67,99,36 1,20,99 21,27,30 95,02,10 2,04,66 79,97,60 29,56,47 21,10 33,44,75 1,06,68,01 2,64,99 44,48,70 21,10,95 56,62 21,92,86 51,81,36 84,62,36,33 18,76,20 0 50,00 0 49,38,35,83 1,27,45,92 0 0 59,55,00 5,35,00 5,23,24,65 0 6,43,50 2,71,81,99 0 86,03,00 11,34,42 0 5,78,56,74 0 4,59,03,56 10,02,50 85,33,50 0 3,25,32,79 0 11,57,82,98 23,88,00 0 5,00,00 2,40 50,00,65,04 5,15,00,62 42,49,99 48,41,68 59,55,00 8,38,50 13,91,24,01 1,20,99 27,70,80 3,66,84,09 2,04,66 1,66,00,60 40,90,89 21,10 6,12,01,49 1,06,68,01 4,61,68,55 54,51,20 1,06,44,45 56,62 3,47,25,65 51,81,36 96,20,19,31 42,64,20 EstimateActual Fiscal Year 2016/17 Grant / Subsidies Summary (Rs. in '000 ) Annex -17 Heading Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total 202 204 208 301 305 306 307 308 311 312 313 314 325 326 327 329 330 331 336 337 340 343 345 347 349 350 352 67 2015/16 2016/172014/15 Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Labour and Employment MOF Miscellaneous 15,55,56 6,67 44,83,17 8,97,59,37 4,48,69,35 8,14,79 12,93,96,44 2,95,29 0 8,52,60 17,26,03,80 2,81,98,95 0 0 18,50,85 6,67 53,35,77 26,23,63,17 7,30,68,30 8,14,79 12,93,96,44 17,23,07 16,63 37,65,20 12,61,14,00 5,38,39,17 1,24,51 1,24,19,13 22,45,77 1,07,40 10,05,48 18,20,52,19 3,42,25,18 0 21,07,34,84 39,68,84 1,24,03 47,70,68 30,81,66,19 8,80,64,35 1,24,51 22,31,53,97 1,85,11,89,1376,29,04,391,08,82,84,741,58,57,93,9044,15,42,981,14,42,50,92 Revised Estimate Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total 22,21,72 10,00 49,13,17 11,80,02,27 8,63,53,82 86,58 1,28,20,00 1,26,53,49,39 25,69,99 1,82,85 12,63,70 41,86,63,83 4,18,38,51 0 5,00,00,00 1,38,15,28,26 47,91,71 1,92,85 61,76,87 53,66,66,10 12,81,92,33 86,58 6,28,20,00 2,64,68,77,65 EstimateActual Heading Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total Total Expenditure 356 357 358 365 370 371 602 68 10,48,92,13,54Total Amount STG Code(Sustainable Development Goals) wise Allocation (Rs. '000) STG Code Fiscal Year 2016/17 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Percentage 19.34 6.22 4.06 11.27 .21 3.24 5.16 1.03 16.29 .42 19.93 .01 .27 1.45 10.45 .65 100 No poverty Zero hunger Good health and well being Quality education Gender equality Clean water and sanitation Affordable and clean energy Decent work and economic growth Industry, innovation and infrastructure Reduced inequalities Sustainable cities and communities Responsible consumption and production Climate action Life below water Life on land Peace, justice and strong institutions Partnerships for the goals Annex -18 202875032 65200389 42600024 118210864 2222245 33978549 54147486 10850853 170820561 4408290 209078414 82483 .272785606 15238037 109652093 6770428 69 70 Annex 19 Targeted Performance Indicators of FY 2016/17 Budget SN Sector Performance Indicators Up to FY 2015/16 At the end of FY 2016/17 Addition al Perform ance 1 Agriculture Food grain Production M.Ton (thousand) 8680 9715 1035 Vegetable M.Ton (thousand) 3700 3725 25 Fish M.Ton (thousand) 77.67 87.6 9.93 2 Irrigation Additional Irrigation Facilities Hector 1389100 143 7184 48084 Peoples' Embankment Program KM 178 194 16 Narayani, Mahakali, Darchula, Karnali small rivers and Brook KM 96 112 16 Landside Management Activities KM 400 530 130 Small Irrigation Hector 16300 32429 16129 Settlement/Plain Market Conservation Activities KM 300 450 150 3 Forest Seedling Procurement, Production, Distribution Unit 22500000 43663000 2116300 0 Scientific Forest Management Hector 25000 60000 350 00 Poor Oriented Leasehold Forest Program 26 39 13 Beneficiary group through community based forest Management Household 2461996 2466178 4182 4 Roads District H/Q with Road Connection Nos. 73 74 1 Districts with Blacktopped Road Connection Nos. 67 68 1 Blacktopped Road KM 12233 13133 900 Graveled Road KM 6737 7337 600 Temporary(Muddy) Road KM 10061 10761 700 Routine & Recurrent Road Maintenance K.M 9200 9300 100 Periodic Road Maintenance K.M 350 550 200 No. of Bridge Construction Nos. 1930 2030 100 5 Rural Roads and Bridges Blacktopped Road K.M 1690 1736 46 Graveled Road K.M 12425 12676 251 New Track Opening K.M 38768 39441 673 Rural Road Bridge Construction Nos 230 310 80 VDC Connected with Road K.M 2739 2779 40 Suspension Bridge Nos 6477 6977 500 6 Electricity Electricity Production Capacity MW 829 1029 200 Pipeline Electricity Project Capacity MW 1852.94 23 32.94 480 Transmission Line Construction KM 2848 2973 125 Expansion of 33 kV Distribution Line KM 4323 4823 500 Expansion of 11 kV Distribution Line KM 33893 34393 500 71 SN Sector Performance Indicators Up to FY 2015/16 At the end of FY 2016/17 Addition al Perform ance Electricity leakage Percentage 26 24 -2 Electricity Facility VDC Nos 2892 2932 40 Electricity Facility Household Nos 735000 740000 50 00 Electricity Consumption/per head KWh 132 140 8 Electricity Access Population Percentage 58 62 4 7 Alternative Energy Installation of Domestic Solar Electricity Nos 6179 76 762976 145000 Electricity Generation from Micro and Small Hydropower MW 24 28.5 4.5 Construction of Bio-gas Plant for Household Use Nos 364000 404000 40000 Improved Stove Nos 724000 1024000 300000 8 Communication Telephone Facility to Consumers District 75 75 0 Tele Density Percentage 110.25 113 2.75 Optical Fiber Network Reached District 49 72 23 Access to Broadband District 72 75 3 Internet Users Nos. 12293132 15093132 2800000 Density of Internet Use Percentage 46.46 53 6.54 Mobile Phone Users Nos. 27516055 30516055 3000000 9 Education 1 class students with Previous Experience of Child Development Percentage 62.40 67.00 4.6 Basic Grade 1-5 Enrollment Percentage 96.60 97.00 0.4 Basic Grade 1-8 Enrollment Percentage 89.4 0 91.00 1.6 Secondary Graded 9-12 Enrollment Percentage 37.70 40.00 2.3 Grade 8 Completion Percentage 69.70 72.50 2.8 Grade 10 Retention Percentage 37.10 41.00 3.9 School Drop-out Ratio Primary (Grade 1-5) dropout Percentage 3.90 3.40 -0.5 Lower Secondary (Grade 6-8) dropout Percentage 4.50 4.20 -0.3 Secondary (Grade 9-10) dropout Percentage 4.90 4.50 -0.4 Literacy Rate Percentage 65.9 -65.9 Literacy Rate age Group more than 15-24 Percentage 88.6 89 0.4 Construction of new Class Room Nos. 76824 84824 80 00 Toilet with WASH Facility Nos. 12700 13700 1000 School with Internet Facility Nos. 1748 8048 6300 Girls Toiled Construction Nos. 12700 12700 0 Pre-primary Education Ratio 0.99 1 0.01 Higher level Education Ratio 1.05 1 -0.05 10 Health Delivery Care from Health Institutions Percentage 5 5 60 5 Modern Means of Family Planning Use Rate Percentage 49.6 50 0.4 72 SN Sector Performance Indicators Up to FY 2015/16 At the end of FY 2016/17 Addition al Perform ance Pregnancy Test up to fourth Time Percentage 59 61 2 Receiving Maternity Services from MidWife Percentage 50 55 5 Maternal Mortality Rate per hundred thousand 258 151 -107 Child Mortality Rate per thousand 38 38 0 New born Mortality Rate per thousand 23 23 0 Patients having free Heart Treatment Nos. 927 927 0 Free Medicine Availability Types 70 70 0 11 Drinking Water, Sanitation Population with access to basic drinking water Percentage 83.6 86 2.4 Population with access to basic Sanitaiton Percenta ge 81 84 3 12 Urban Development Population Consuming Urban Facilities Percentage 42 46 4 13 Tourism Tourists Arrival Nos. (hundred thousand) 5.38 8 2.62 Tourists Stay Days 12.4 13.5 1.1 Per Tourist Per Days Expense Per day dollar 53 55 2 Employment Generat through Tourism Nos. 90000 10500 0 15000 Tourist Contribution of GDP Percentage 2.6 3 0.4 Number of all seasons Airport Nos. 22 26 4 International Airlines Service Nos. 26 27 1 14 Social Security Allowance for Senior Citizen Nos. 951000 1284000 33 3000 Single Women and Widow Nos. 657414 525230 -132184 Absolute and Partically Handicapped Nos. 62184 6268 4 500 Endangered Tribe Nos. 23100 20190 -2910 Child Protection Grant Nos. 466074 475025 8951 15 Housing People Housing: Building Construction Nos. 4000 6192 2192 16 Industry Employment Generation (From Cottage and Small Industry Development Program) Person 2504373 2554373 50000 a. Expansion of Micro Enterprises Development Program District 64 69 5 b. Entrepreneur Generation Person 90000 107000 1700 0 Construction of Access Road for Cement Industries Nos. 18 25 7 Transmission Line and Building SubStation for Cement Industries Nos. 12 18 6 17 Commerce Distribution of Improved Dryer for Cardamom Piece 45 100 55 Transportation of Food in Remote Districts MT 5577 20000 14423 73 SN Sector Performance Indicators Up to FY 2015/16 At the end of FY 2016/17 Addition al Perform ance Food Store in National Food Security Storage MT 10637 25000 14363 Food Stock in SAARC Food Security Bank MT 8000 8000 0 Transportation of Iodized Salt in 22 Remote Districts MT 3629 70000 66371 Market Monitoring Time 75 150 75 18 Cooperative Number of Cooperative Members Nos. (thousand) 5200 5300 100 Increased in Saving of Cooperative Rs. (hundred thousand) 2100000 2250000 150000 Increased in Investment of Cooperative Rs. (hundred thousand) 1850000 1900000 50000 Skilled Manpower in Cooperative sector Nos. 125000 159000 34000 Direct Employment through Cooperative Nos. 61270 62 500 1230