Budget Speech of Fiscal Year 2018/19 Delivered to Joint Assembly of Federal Parliament By Honorable Finance Minister Dr. Yuba Raj Khatiwada Tuesday 29 May 2018 Government of Nepal Ministry of Finance 2018 www.mof.gov.np Unofficial Translation 1 Right Honorable Speaker of the House of Representatives, Right Honorable Chairman of the National Assembly, 1. I feel privileged to present the budget of FY 2018/19 in this august house in the capacity of Finance Minister of the Government of Nepal. On this occasion, I would like to pay heartfelt tribute to known and unknown martyrs who sacrificed their precious lives seeking political transformation. I would also like to express my sincere gratitude to my fellow Nepali citizens who have strived for independence, democracy, social justice, equality and prosperity, and to those towering personalities of Nepali politics who led movements to secure these fundamental rights. 2. After a long struggle, Nepal, as per its people’s aspirations, has transitioned into a federal state that is inclusive and representative. Nepal has also been able to institutionalize a democratic system of governance through three tiers of election. This unique political achievement along with people’s mandate has enabled the incumbent government to make maximum use of available resources and capacity to embark on a journey of development and prosperity. 3. The incumbent Government has embraced a unique socio-economic development model in accordance with its long-term objective of creating “ Prosperous Nepal, Happy Nepalis” . Equitable development is not possible solely through higher per capita income, nor is it possible through distribution of limited income. Hence, the present Government believes that overall development is only possible through high economic growth and its equitable distribution. The starting point of our journey towards socialism is fulfillment of basic social needs such as decent job, minimum food security, basic health and education services, clean drinking water and safe housing to all citizens. 4. I have taken into account the Constitution of Nepal, principles and priorities of the Appropriation Bill 2018, policies and programs of the Government of Nepal, the current periodic plan, the 2 Sustainable Development Goals and suggestions provided by Honorable Members of the Federal Parliament as guidelines to formulate the budget for the next fiscal year. I have also taken into account constructive suggestions provided by various political parties, organizations, intellectuals, and fellow citizens residing in Nepal and abroad to prepare the budget. Right Honorable Speaker, Right Honorable Chairman, 5. Now, let me allow to highlight the country’s economic scenario in brief. 6. I have already informed this august House about the country’s macro-economic situation through the White Paper after the formation of this government. The measures taken by the incumbent Government to ensure good governance and promote development have started creating positive impact on the economy. 7. The economic growth rate is projected to touch 5.9 percent in the current fiscal year. The average inflation in the first nine months of the current fiscal year stood at 4.1 percent. 8. The trade deficit is widening due to the narrow base and the low growth rate of export compared to import. The balance of payments, that has remained surplus for a long time, has thus slipped into the negative territory. 9. Although the budget was launched on Jeth 15 in the last fiscal year as per the constitutional provision, its implementation failed to meet expectations. The revised estimate of government expenditure for the current fiscal year is expected to be Rs 1,046.51 billion, or 81.8 percent, of the total allocation. As per revised estimates, 87.1 percent of the budget allocated for recurrent expenditure will be utilized; 71.2 percent of the budget allocated for capital expenditure will be utilized; and 77.2 3 percent of the budget allocated for financing provision will be utilized. 10. Revenue collection is expected to hover around Rs 728.35 billion, which is very close to the target. Revised foreign development cooperation mobilization is estimated to be Rs. 36.16 billion and Rs. 74.92 billion as grant and loan, respectively. 11. I have already presented the Economic Survey 2017/18 containing key economic indicators, statements and statistics, and the annual progress report of the Public Enterprises of the last fiscal year in this august House. Right Honorable Speaker, Right Honorable Chairman, 12. Now I would like to present the objectives and priorities of the budget for FY 2018/19. The following are objectives of the budget: a) To end extreme poverty, impoverishment and backwardness by expeditiously fulfilling minimum basic livelihood needs, which are fundamental rights of citizens. b) to achieve rapid economic and human development by enhancing and optimally utilizing resources, opportunities and potentials. c) to build a prosperous, strong, self-reliant and socialismoriented economy by developing economic, physical and social infrastructure. 13. I have presented the priorities of the budget for FY 2018/2019 as follows: a) Promotion of sectors that can create jobs and employment opportunities for all citizens, 4 b) Accelerated human development through the development of the social sector, including health and education, c) Use of capital, technology and research in sectors, such as agriculture, water resources and tourism, to achieve sustainable, broad, equitable and high economic growth, d) Development of basic and modern physical infrastructure, such as roads, railways, irrigation, electricity and urban facilities, to accelerate the pace of building modern Nepal, e) Reconstruction of structures damaged by earthquakes and floods, and f) Enhancement in quality of public service delivery, and good governance perceivable by the citizens. 14. Federal government will collaborate, coordinate and forge a partnership with provinces and local levels to achieve the objectives and implement the priorities of the budget of the federal government. Government will collaborate with cooperatives and the private sector to make effective utilization of available capital, skills and capacity. 15. Now, let me allow to present the statement of budget allocation for federal, provincial and local levels in accordance with fiscal federalism. 16. In accordance with the constitutional provision, I have made a provision of budget head wise allocation only for the programs to be implemented by the federal government. High-tech projects under the jurisdiction of provinces and local levels that are under construction or in the final phase of construction will be completed by the federal government and handed over to them. The federal government will not allocate budget for new projects to be built by provinces and local levels using fiscal equalization grant, internal resources and fund transferred through revenue sharing mechanism. Provinces and local bodies that are technically and financially capable of operating projects that are currently under 5 the federal government will be handed over to them in the coming years. 17. I have made equalization grant available to provinces and local levels on the basis of human development indicators, such as education, health, drinking water; and infrastructure, expenditure requirement, revenue generation capacity as well as economic, social and other disparities. I have allocated Rs. 135.51 billion as equalization grant. 18. Out of Value Added Tax and Excise Duty levied on domestic production, I have projected revenue sharing grant to be Rs.114.24 billion for provincial and local level governments on the basis of their population, territory, human development indicators, infrastructure and expenditure requirement. 19. I have allocated Rs. 63.14 billion and Rs. 109.85 billion as conditional grants to provinces and local level, respectively. 20. I have allocated Rs. 20 billion to provide complementary grant to provinces and local levels for projects identified by them under their jurisdiction, and to provide special grant to provinces and local levels to execute activities of special nature. 21. Now, I would like to present the details of sectoral programs and budgetary allocations. Work and Employment 22. The Prime Minister Employment Program will be initiated to create more employment opportunities within the country in order to gradually develop such situation that does not require Nepalis to seek foreign employments. This program will be connected to commercial agriculture, irrigation, drinking water, river control, forest, tourism, transport infrastructure and other public construction sectors that are executed by three levels of the 6 government. I have allocated Rs.3.10 billion for this program. Employment Guarantee Bill will be presented in this session of the Parliament in order to ensure minimum employment guarantee in the sector creating employment in public development constructions works. 23. Employment Information Center will be established in collaboration with provinces to register unemployed human resources and to exchange the information about employment opportunities. Foreign employment service providing companies will also be mobilized to manage domestic employment. Arrangement will be made to provide free of cost short-term training in order to supply skilled labor as per market demand. 24. Equal pay for equal job policy will be implemented. Minimum wages will be reviewed. Labor inspections will be made effective to ensure business related health protection. A quasi-judicial entity will be formed promptly to resolve labor related disputes. Monitoring mechanism will be made effective to completely prohibit child labor. 25. In order to encourage youths with higher education to start their own businesses, arrangements will be made to provide loan of up to Rs. 700 thousand with a 5 percent subsidy in interest rate against collateral of their academic certificates. There will be compulsory provisioning of credit guarantee and insurance of such businesses. I have established a Challenge Fund to provide startup capital for businesses initiated by entrepreneurs with innovative knowledge, skill and capacity. 26. Necessary arrangements will be made to integrate all public funds established for the purpose of employment promotion and development of entrepreneurship. Capital, skill and entrepreneurship trainings will be ensured for small businesses and self-employment activities in proprietorship of women. 7 27. Foreign employment opportunities will be utilized as a short-term strategy until sufficient options and employment opportunities become available in the country. Foreign employment will only be allowed after completing intergovernmental labor agreement and skill development training. The services to obtain labor permit will be eased by setting up foreign employment service center offices in all provinces. 28. I have made provision of providing project loan of up to Rs. 1 million for returnee migrants based on certification of their skills so that they can start relevant business. Arrangements will be made for compulsory credit guarantee of such loan and insurance of such enterprises. 29. Migrant workers are encouraged to send their remittance through banking channel and to invest in the productive sectors belonging to micro and small industries, tourism, agro-business and employmentoriented service sectors. Health 30. Health services will be made easily accessible, reliable and qualitative. Health insurance program will be expanded all over the country in order to ensure universal coverage in basic health services. Maternity service will be provided from the stage of pregnancy to ensure nutrition of mother and child. Under this scheme, I have doubled the amount of antenatal care and transportation cost provided for delivery in health institutions. I have provisioned necessary budget for multi-sectoral nutrition program being implemented by local levels. 31. At least one health center will be established in every ward within the next two years in partnership with local level governments. I have provisioned to provide Rs. 4 billion grant to the local level governments to build such health institutions in 1200 wards of the country in the first phase. The medicines that the government 8 provides for free will be continuously made available to all health centers across the country. 32. The construction work will be started as per the Bir Hospital Master Plan. A state-of-the-art medical laboratory with hi-tech health diagnostic system and kidney treatment center will be established in Kathmandu. All possible steps will be taken for treating sickle cell anemia, which is found to be prevalent in Tarai Madhesh belt and specially among the Tharu community there through proper medical research and diagnosis. 33. At least one medical doctor will be deputed in all of the health centres in the country. Government will encourage increase in production of medicines in order to make the country self-sufficient in essential medicines. 34. Hospitals with more than 100 bed capacity will be compulsorily required to run extended health services. Geriatric wards will also be established in such hospitals. Mobile health camps featuring specialist doctors will be organized in remote areas in collaboration with private medical colleges. 35. Process for establishing additional medical education institutes will be duly initiated to ensure that each province has at least one government run medical institute within its territory. A comprehensive act concerning medical academy will be enacted so as to run all medical education institutes in a well-managed and effective manner. 36. Nagarik Arogya program will be run to maintain good health, promote positive thinking and for personality development through meditation and yoga. I have allocated Rs. 100 million to establish Bidushi Yogmaya Ayurvedic University to conduct scientific research on Ayurvedic medicines, produce them and also provide Ayurvedic education. 9 37. Provisions will be made to deliver health services by integrating alternative treatment methods such as Ayurvedic, Homeopathic, Unani, Acupuncture, Amchi and naturopathy with allopathic treatment techniques. 38. Smoking and the use of alcohol will be prohibited in all public places and vehicles. A procedure will be developed to properly regulate the production, import and sale of alcohol and tobacco products. 39. I have made provision to mobilize rapid response teams comprising medical experts to help in efforts to curtail the spread of as well as eradicate pandemic diseases in an effective manner. 40. I have allocated Rs. 56.42 billion to the health sector. Education 41. In the coming fiscal year, all school aged children will be enrolled in school through nationwide school enrollment campaign in order to ensure their access to education. Education of up to secondary level will be gradually made free and compulsory. “Literate Nepal” will be announced within two years in collaboration with the Provincial and Local level governments. 42. A campaign entitled “Let’s Bring All Children to School, Retain and Educate Them” will be carried out for the benefit of children. Locally produced nutritious snacks will be provided to all students up to grade five of community schools that operate in localities with low Human Development Index. 43. Schools will be made disable and child friendly. Residential education will be provided to students of technical and vocational subjects who come from geographically remote areas. Further research and development of Nepali sign language as well as training and professional development of interpreters will be 10 encouraged. I have allocated necessary funds to establish well equipped residential schools for providing special education in each province to enhance disabled children's access to education. 44. Madarasha, Gurukul and Monastery education will be brought to the mainstream of modern education. Higher education in all subjects and streams will be made free for children from Dalit and endangered communities. 45. Technical institutes and schools will be gradually established in all local levels in order to expand the reach of technical and vocational education. I have allocated an additional Rs. 840.30 million to start technical classes in community schools. 46. I have allocated funds to restructure Council for Technical Education and Vocational Training, expand technical teacher’s training program and provide internship facility to students studying in bachelor's level in technical campuses. Internships in community schools will be made compulsory for students pursuing post graduate in Education. 47. Existing posts for teachers will be justifiably redistributed on the basis of number of students, subject requirements and geographical conditions. Additional grants will be provided to secondary schools for additional teachers to teach science, mathematics, English and technical subjects. 48. Rural Telecommunication Fund will be utilized to provide free highspeed internet service to community schools in order to improve the quality of public education through IT friendly education. 49. Education loan at five percent interest subsidy will be made available for students belonging to economically deprived, marginalized and targetted communities in order to help them pursue higher studies as well as technical and vocational education. 11 50. Universities will be developed as the center of educational excellence to gradually make them internationally competitive, specialized and research oriented. The Government of Nepal will provide necessary support to establish such state-of-the art universities. Open University and Alternative Education System will also be expanded. 51. The academic quality of universities will be gradually improved. Professors will be engaged in research and educational progress. Performance and results will be the basis for providing university grants. For this, I have significantly increased the grant that goes to the University Grant Commission, making it reach Rs.14.36 billion. 52. Reform measures will be adopted to remove the gap between the quality of government and private sector schools, and to increase the quality of public sector education through the development of necessary infrastructures, use of new technology and improvement in educational standard. Reform measures will also be put in place to improve the school curriculum in such a way that students possess the feelings of nationality, patriotism and social responsibilities. 53. An umbrella act will be enacted for the purpose of keeping uniformity in the establishment and management of the universities. Science and Technology 54. The mission of building modern Nepal will be initiated with the support of scientific research and technological developments. Madan Bhandari Institute of Science and Technology will be established with the objective of making it an international educational center for excellence in Science and Technology. 12 55. A law on nuclear energy will be drafted for the secured use of nuclear technology, ionized radiation and for protecting life of people in general from the adverse impacts of such activities. 56. I have allocated Rs. 134.51 billion for Education, Science and Technology sector. Ministry of Youth and Sports 57. Focus will be given to increasing sports activities for children and youths in order to contribute towards their physical and mental development. I have allocated necessary budget for establishing sports stadiums, playgrounds, youth clubs and parks in collaboration with local levels. I have allocated budget for building at least one provincial level stadium in each province. 58. I have allocated Rs.2.04 billion to enhance Nepal's identity and image in the international arena through sports, to make necessary preparations for the 18th Asian Games and build required infrastructures for organizing13th South Asian Games and 8th National Sports Competition. Women, Children and Senior Citizen 59. I have allocated Rs. 295.7 million to make all indigent and backward women self-dependent through self-earning by expanding the President Women Uplifting Program through the development of their skills as well as entrepreneurship ability and increasing their access to work and employment opportunities. Awareness will be enhanced against child marriage, dowry system, Deuki, witchcraft, Chaupadi and other such social ills, superstitions and violence against women. Air ambulance will be arranged to rescue pregnant and post-partum women of rural and remote areas facing medical emergency. 60. Rehabilitation and other special programs will be launched for disabled persons to boost their morale, self-respect, and enhance their skill and capacity. Street children as well as other vulnerable 13 people who are forced to live a very risky life in the streets will also be rescued and rehabilitated. 61. Grants will be provided to organizations providing security and care to autistic persons, mental ill, helpless, orphans, elderly people and disabled persons on the basis of specified procedures. An elderly care home will be established in each province. 62. Loan (on collective guarantee) of up to Rs. 1 million at 5 percent interest subsidy will be provided for each Dalit community by socially integrating them to run business through cooperatives and community production system. I have provisioned budget for modernizing and promoting traditional skills and occupation. 63. I have allocated Rs. 1.88 billion for women, children and senior citizens. Social Security 64. Integrated social security policy will be designed and enacted in order to integrate the existing scattered social security schemes and broaden the base so that all citizens can Perceive a sense of security provided by the state. 65. Province sponsored social security for senior citizens, single woman, disabled persons and endangered indigenous communities will be well managed and other facilities will be gradually increased. The government will bear the cost of health insurance premium for up to Rs. 100 thousand for all citizens of over seventy years of age. In addition to the government-sponsored social security, a legal provision will be enacted that the children must take care of their elderly parents. 66. Child protection grant of Rs. 400 per month that is being provided for children of Dalits and those living in Karnali region will be broadened to include the districts in Terai-Madhesh that rank low in human development index. 67. A contributory pension system for public servants joining service from 17 July 2018 will be compulsorily implemented. Contributory social security rules will be formulated and enacted as per the Act. 14 68. Individuals involved in unorganized sector like farmers, laborers and self-employed persons will also be gradually streamlined in social security. A provision will be made that would prevent social security beneficiary to get double benefits. Agriculture 69. Agriculture will be developed as the basis for poverty alleviation, reduction in unemployment and food security. I have emphasized the need for modernization, commercialization, mechanization and the expansion of value chain in agriculture to build agriculturally strong economy by doubling agriculture production within five years. 70. The Prime Minister Agriculture Modernization Project will be expanded. Grants will be provided on improved seeds and plants of tea, coffee, cardamom, areca nuts, potato, banana and lemon. I have allocated Rs. 4.77 billion to run this project effectively. 71. Policy related to increasing the export of high value agricultural products will be adopted. Production diversification and value chain will be expanded to contribute to multipurpose use of agricultural products. Organic production of agricultural products will be prioritized. 72. “Agriculture Knowledge Center” will be established at all local levels with an objective of providing technical knowledge and skills about agriculture and livestock. Returnee migrants will be encouraged to engage in organic farming and agriculture business. 73. Specified grants will be provided to those industries that rely on agricultural raw materials to produce raw material they need in the country itself on the basis of the production cost they bear through individual contract and cooperative farming. 74. Establishment of fruit nurseries, plantling distribution and technology transfer program will be conducted by assessing pocket areas fruit production in Chure Bhawar and other areas with low grain productivity. I have allocated the budget to 15 establish at least one integrated community or cooperative model agriculture farm in each province. 75. I have allocated budget to provide fertilizers, seeds, pesticides, medicines, equipment and other necessary services for agriculture production through local level agriculture service centers. I have allocated the budget for agriculture research centers, agriculture cooperatives and agriculture campuses to encourage research and study focused on development of agriculture and animal husbandry. 76. Agriculture insurance will be expanded to address production risk. I have allocated necessary amount for the purpose of subsidizing 75 percent of the insurance premium for agriculture, livestock and fisheries insurance. 77. The procedures related to getting interest subsidy on loan for commercial agriculture and livestock will be modified. I have allocated Rs. 5 billion to provide grants for interest subsidy associated with all types of loan. 78. I have waived off loans borrowed by small farmers from preexisting Sajha Sahakari Sanstha. Institutional reform will be carried out to make Agriculture Loan Program of Small Farmers Development Bank effective. 79. I have allocated budget for 25 percent subsidy for the acquisition of necessary equipment for milk, meat, fruit and vegetable processing industries operating through cooperatives. This arrangement will also be applied for establishment of feed industries for fish and livestock based on non-food industries at the local level. 80. I have arranged production-based grants to sugarcane farmers. I have also provisioned production grants for silk, cotton and wool farming through cooperatives and 25 percent capital grant for the establishment of processing industries. 81. I have allocated the budget for field soil test through mobile lab and distribution of soil quality test kit at the local level. I have also 16 allocated necessary budget to examine the quality of the seeds at the provincial level. 82. Factories producing organic fertilizers, chemical fertilizers, pesticides and agriculture equipment will be established in order to facilitate supply of agricultural inputs in collaboration with cooperatives and the private sector. Seed company will be enhanced to certify the seed quality and manage the supply system. Agriculture cooperatives will be encouraged to produce seeds. 83. Effective regulation system will be established to promote food hygiene and quality. I have allocated necessary budget to intensify the use of food quality test equipment. 84. I have provisioned necessary grant to purchase required equipment for the establishment of at least one Biological Pesticides Lab in each province with provincial level collaboration. 85. The support price will be fixed before planting the specified agricultural crops, including wheat, rice and sugarcane. Market Information System will be established to provide the price of agriculture yield through mobile services. I have allocated necessary budget for Agricultural Management and Information System to minimize the risk of investment in agriculture sector to be caused by weather and climate change. 86. Bill of land use policy will be presented in this session of Parliament for the systematic use and scientific classification of the land. An arrangement will be made to prohibit the use of irrigated and other agriculture land for housing. Public and Guthi land will be protected. 87. I have allocated the necessary budget to record all the agriculture land and to digitalize the land ownership certificate within the coming two years. Legal arrangement for real estate transaction only through licensed companies will be made. The land survey will be carried out by using modern technology. The mapping and surveying task of the border areas will be managed. 17 88. I have allocated Rs. 3.89 billion to complete the rehabilitation work of freed Kamaiya (bonded labour) and Haliya (ploughman) within the coming fiscal year. 89. Based on the result of poverty survey carried out in the past, National Social Security Certificate will be distributed to poor households of 26 districts within the next fiscal year. The same survey will be carried out and certificate distributed in the remaining 51 districts within the next two years. For this purpose, I have allocated Rs. 637.3 million. Forest and Environment 90. The use and conservation of this sector will be prioritized through scientific forest management. The complementary role of three tiers of the government will be established for the conservation and utilization of the forest areas. Tree plantation and forest expansion will be carried out in unutilized land, along river banks and landslide prone areas. 91. The extension, value addition and marketing will be encouraged for the high value local environment friendly forest products. Biodiversity will be preserved. Programs such as environment conservation and management, land-erosion control and protection of river source and river banks will be implemented. 92. Galchhi, dry drain, landslide control and agro forestry system will be promoted and expanded with effective implementation of President Chure Protection Program in collaboration with province and local level governments. In collaboration with local level, lake and ponds will be constructed in hills and Chure region from rainwater harvesting for the biodiversity preservation. 93. Herbal and forest-based industries will be established in partnership with public, private, cooperative and communities. I have provisioned grant for the purchase of equipment and establishment of export-oriented industries using forest-based raw materials. 18 94. An arrangement will be made for collecting and processing forest products including herbs through cooperatives. Ecotourism promotion programs will be implemented in national parks, wildlife conservation and protected areas in close collaboration with local level governments and private sector. The natural zoo and tourist route will be constructed in viable forest areas. 95. Misuse of forests in the border areas will be checked in collaboration with the local level and forest consumer committees. I have proposed budget for the establishment of at least one herb processing center in provinces where there is viability for the same. Nepal Timber Corporation will be strengthened by increasing its existing capital structure, thereby enabling it to engage in seasoning of forest woods while also fulfilling the ever increasing demands of industrial and construction sector. 96. Climate change adaptation and mitigation programs will be implemented. I have allocated budget for the protection of mountains and glacier lakes that remain as the source of fresh water. Special attention will be paid to the cleaning of the Mount Everest, including various other mountain peaks and their vicinity. 97. There will be collaboration with government, private sector, NGOs, cooperatives and communities for biodiversity preservation and climate change adaptation as part of the Clean, Green and Pollution Free Nepal campaign. 98. Assistance will be provided to control sound, dust and air pollution and waste management to maintain environmental cleanness of Kathmandu valley. I have allocated budget for the expansion of air quality measurement center and effectiveness of environmental assessment and monitoring system in the major cities. 99. I have allocated Rs. 16.59 billion for the forest and environment sector. Industry 100. Arrangements have been made to provide protection to sugar, medicine, iron bar, wood, cement and at least a dozen or so construction materials in order to be self-reliant in them within the 19 next two years. Export oriented industries such as jute, carpet, garments, pashmina, silk and cotton-based industries, footwear and handicrafts will be promoted. I have allocated necessary fund for the scientific test of iron mines to initiate excavation and processing of iron ore. Potential natural resources and precious metals will be explored, excavated and processed in collaboration with the private sector. 101. I have allocated necessary budget for conducting feasibility study as well as for infrastructure development works to establish at least one industrial zone, economic zone and special economic zone in each province in coordination with the provinces and partnership with public and private sectors. Arrangements will be made to operate closed and sick industries in the collaboration with the private sector and cooperatives on the basis of their respective potentialities. 102. Industrial villages will be established at local levels within the next three years in collaboration with the private sector. I have allocated Rs.280 million for the establishment of necessary infrastructures of at least 20 industrial villages in each province in the next fiscal year. 103. I have made arrangements to provide 6 percent interest subsidy on collective project-based loan up to Rs.1.5 million operated by women through development of their entrepreneurship, skill development and training. 104. Foreign direct investment will be promoted in manufacturing industries with export potentials and high value addition in Nepal. The process of industrial registration will be simplified. Tax incentives will be provided to the manufacturing industries which start production within stipulated time. I have allocated budget for the construction of road and electricity infrastructure necessary for the industries. Commerce and Supply 105. After identifying, developing and upgrading production of exportable goods, the international market promotion will be conducted. I have allocated budget to purchase necessary goods 20 and equipment for a permanent exhibition stall of handicrafts and other exportable goods at all foreign diplomatic missions to promote country's exports. The construction works on Handicraft Exhibition Center and Selling Center will be initiated in Kathmandu. Such exhibition halls will be gradually established in each province. 106. Production and quality improvement of high value and value added agricultural, forest and mineral industrial products will be promoted to increase contribution of industrial sector to the economy together with import substitution, export promotion and creation of employment opportunities. Export grants of up to 5 percent will be provided against exports of industrial produce. 107. I have arranged necessary budget to provide quarantine services in our outbound points and to increase institutional capacity. I have arranged necessary budget to establish container freight station in Kathmandu. 108. Sectors to obtain Nepal Standard Mark will be expanded. Monitoring will be intensified to ensure quality of goods with Nepal Standard Mark and prevent transactions of inferior quality goods using fake standard marks. 109. Arrangements will be made to establish low-price-shops through cooperative organizations in the local level. Wholesale shops will be established for consumable items to be purchased by cooperative shops. I have arranged subsidies for getting basic food grains at lower price for the citizens holding national security identity card. 110. Supply system will be made competitive and all kinds of monopolies and price cartels will be abolished altogether. Regular and effective market monitoring will be carried out in collaboration with the local level. 111. Nepal Food Corporation will be restructured as National Supply Company followed by acquisition of assets and liabilities of National Trading Limited. Arrangements will be made for the company to procure food grains in minimum support price as determined by the government and ensure accessible supply. I 21 have also allocated funds to transport food grains procured thus to remote areas. 112. Storage capacity of petroleum products will be enhanced to enable the country to meet its demand for the next three months if the supply is disrupted. Supply, cost structure and price determination system of Nepal Oil Corporation will be thoroughly reviewed. I have allocated Rs. 10.45 billion for industry, commerce and supply sector. Tourism 113. Development of infrastructure, promotion of market and expansion of services and facilities for recreational, natural, historical, religious and adventurous tourism will be carried out to increase employment and income through tourism. Visit Nepal 2020 campaign will be launched with an objective of bringing 2 million tourists into the country in the next two years. 114. I have allocated budget to identify, develop and promote at least one hundred new tourist destinations across the country in partnership with provincial and local level governments for the promotion of internal and external tourism. Internal tourism promotion campaign will be launched with the slogan Country First Then Abroad. 115. Tourism services will be diversified in order to attract quality tourists into the country. Current seasonal nature of tourism will be transformed into regular tourism throughout the year. Tourism promotion program targeting India and China will be carried out by the Nepal Tourism Board in a special manner. 116. Government will facilitate the development of necessary infrastructure required for tourism services, including quality hotels and resorts. Necessary infrastructures will be developed to help Nepal become a MICE tourism center. 117. Necessary infrastructures will be prepared to develop Nepal Tourism and Hotel Management Institute as a deemed university. Information and financial aspect of the tourism sector will be linked with satellite accounting system. Reliable security and 22 emergency rescue system will be arranged for mountaineers and trekkers. Nepali missions abroad will be mobilized for publicity and marketing of Nepal’s tourism in the international arena. 118. I have allocated Rs.5.2 billion for the development of tourism sector. Air Transportation Infrastructure 119. Technical human resource will be developed and highly advanced technology will be used for making Nepal’s aviation safe, regular, reliable and qualitative. Construction work on Nijgadh International Airport will be initiated, Tribhuvan International Airport will be expanded, construction of Pokhara Regional International Airport will be initiated and Gautam Buddha Regional International Airport will come into operation upon completion of construction work. 120. Regular flights to neighboring countries will be launched by upgrading Biratnagar, Janakpur, Nepalganj and Dhangadhi airports as Regional Airports. Construction and upgradation of domestic airports will be expedited. Construction of alternate airport in Dang will also be expedited. 121. The feasibility study and construction of alternate airport in Kavrepalanchok will be expedited in order to effectively manage the intense air traffic pressure at the Tribhuvan International Airport. A Master Plan will be prepared for the expansion and upgradation of domestic airports. 122. For emergency rescue of tourists and other people, helipads will be constructed at the location specified by the local level. I have allocated Rs. 19.35 billion for development of air transport sector. Culture 123. Necessary budget has been allocated for the protection of endangered language, religion and culture. I have allocated necessary budget for building infrastructure required to develop the existing Ethnic Museum in Kirtipur of Kathmandu as a National 23 Cultural Museum so that it properly reflects Nepali customs, language, culture and traditions. 124. Museums of similar nature will be merged to transform them into a national museum. Nepal Academy, Nepal Academy of Music and Drama, Nepal Academy of Fine Arts and other Cultural Academies will be merged to form a single effective entity. 125. Legal and managerial reforms initiatives will be undertaken to protect intellectual property right of the creators. 126. I have allocated budget for the completion of construction work on Pashupati Area and Lumbini Area, conservation of Janaki temple of Janakpur; and carry out study and excavation works on the world-renowned Kailashkut Bhawan, the finest example of Lichhavi era fine art. 127. Priority will be given to the reconstruction of the earthquake affected heritage buildings and sites. Reconstruction work on Ranipokhari, Dharahara and Kasthamandap will be completed within the coming three years. Drinking Water 128. I have allocated budget to ensure people's access to clean drinking water within the next three years by completing the ongoing projects within the next fiscal year. I have allocated budget to ease availability of drinking water in the urban areas of the country through protection of important sources of water and assigning special watershed areas. 129. In order to provide clean drinking water to all within the stipulated time, I have managed complementary grant to the water supply projects to be constructed in cost sharing mechanism at the local level, and beneficiaries’ partnership with community-based organization and non-governmental organizations. 130. Solar and wind energy fed and highly advanced technology led irrigation and drinking water projects will be operationalized in order to fulfil drinking water and irrigation demand at a time in collaboration with provincial and local level. 24 131. I have allocated sufficient budget to complete the construction of the first phase of Melamchi Drinking Water Supply Project to start the supply of drinking water in Kathmandu Valley. I have allocated necessary budget to start the second phase of Melamchi Project and for the management and integration of alternate water sources. 132. I have allocated necessary budget for the arsenic free drinking water program in Tarai-Madhesh area. 133. Feasibility study will be undertaken to operate model drinking water project as a model in large rivers. I have allocated Rs. 24.06 billion for the drinking water sector. Sanitation 134. The FY 2018/19 will be celebrated as the National Sanitation Campaign Year to ensure access to basic sanitation to all Nepali citizens within the next three years. Nepal will be declared as open defecation free country by constructing toilets in all households. Complete sanitation program will be operated in open defecation free area in coordination with local level. The amount received from organized sector’s social accountability will be mobilized in this program. 135. I have allocated necessary budget to construct well facilitated smart toilets in and around urban areas, highways and public places. Irrigation and River Control 136. I have allocated budget to complete ongoing projects and begin new projects to assure irrigation facility for all irrigable land within five years. Based on feasibility, multipurpose projects encompassing drinking water, irrigation, electricity, river control and environmental protection will be launched while operating the water resource projects. I have arranged budget to operate small and medium sized irrigation including Tar lift irrigation and shallow tube-wells in cost sharing mechanism with the provinces and local levels. 25 137. I have allocated necessary budget to begin the feasibility study of river diversion projects including TamorChisang, Sunkoshi-Marine, SunkoshiKamala, Kaligandaki -Tinau and West SetiKailaliPandul and to commence Megha Dang valley irrigation project. 138. I have allocated Rs. 10.99 billion to expedite the construction work on Bheri Babai diversion, Rani Jamara Kulariya, Sikta and Babai irrigation projects. 139. I have increased the grants amounts for solar irrigation which is based on the latest technology, to Rs 350 million. 140. The river control work will be initiated as a campaign in collaboration with province and local level governments and with active participation of the concerned community as well. I have provisioned complementary grant to carry out river control based on biological and innovative method to be initiated in the local level. 141. I have allocated Rs. 2.97 billion for the JantakoTatbandha Program operated for the protection of life and wealth by controlling large rivers. 142. To simplify weather forecast, radar equipments will be installed in Palpa and Udayapur so as stakeholders including farmers, tourist and others will get access to weather forecast information for the week. Energy Development 143. Emphasis will be given to the development and expansion of hydroelectricity and all types of renewable energy to provide clean energy to all Nepali household within the coming three years and to avail electricity to all households as per demand within the next five years. Projects will be implemented along with celebrating the period of 2018-2028 year as Energy Decade. 144. The construction work will be pushed ahead after completion of the detailed feasibility study of Tamor, Kankai, Uttar Ganga, Naumure, Sunkoshi –II, Sunkoshi –III, Kaligandaki and Nalgand, so 26 as to guarantee that at least one viable multipurpose hydroelectricity project is operational in each province. Construction work on Budhi Gandaki Hydropower Project will also begin after completion of compensation distribution. 145. Construction work on West Seti will be commenced by mobilizing domestic resources. Preliminary works for the construction of Chisapani-Karnali Multi-purpose Project will also be started. 146. Appropriate kind of hydro power project will be initiated with the investment of all workers involved in domestic and foreign employment, including civil servants. Blended financial resources will be mobilized in the production of electricity. Hydropower Project of up to 3000 MW will be brought into operation with the investment of the people in general. 147. I have allocated necessary budget to feed the electricity generated from completed hydroelectricity projects into the national grid system through the transmission line. ButwalGorakhapur cross-border transmission line will be initiated and construction of other transmission lines that are currently being built will be completed. DPR of the Lamki-Barali, Duhabi-Purniya and Kohalpur-Lakhanau transmission line projects will be initiated. Construction of the Galchhi Rasuawagadi-Kerung transmission line connecting Nepal to China will be completed within the next five years. Construction of transmission lines parallel to the Eastwest Highway and Mid-Hill Puspalal Highway and north south transmission line aligning with river basin will also be completed. 148. Projects will be developed on the modality of build and transfer so as to engage private investors in the construction of transmission lines. Investment opportunity in the hydro-power projects will be provided to the families and households affected by the construction of transmission lines. 149. The work of managing power purchase agreement and assessing electricity fees will be systematized by forming an Electricity Regulatory Commission. Distribution system will be developed in line with the smart grid system by making it automated and modernized. 27 150. Special technology related to hydro-electricity, solar power, wind energy and other renewable sources of energy will be encouraged in all prospective areas to ensure access to modern and renewable energy for all. Rural electrification will be speeded up in collaboration with the Nepal Government, local level and concerned community. I have allocated Rs. 5 billion for this program. 151. I have allocated Rs.500 million to subsidize installation of bio-gas plant in altogether 25 thousand poor households in Terai-Madhesh and hilly areas in the coming fiscal year. Subsidies will be provisioned for urban and commercial bio-gas plant installation also. 152. I have made arrangements to provide grants to micro hydro projects and renewable energy production initiated by cooperatives and local communities in collaboration with the local level. I have provisioned to provide complimentary grants to all local levels from the federal Government to encourage them to generate energy from the wind, solar and household wastes. 153. I have allocated Rs. 83.9 billion budget for the energy sector. Housing, Building and Urban Infrastructure 154. Apart from Janta Awas , new programs will be commenced to ensure safe housing as accorded under the fundamental rights of the citizen. I have provisioned Rs, 50 thousand grant to households below the poverty line to purchase materials including zinc sheet, subsidized woods and other housing materials if they are willing to build safe houses by themselves. Safe and well-managed settlement will be developed by incorporating families who have been rendered landless and deprived of houses due to natural calamities. 155. Through active participation of the federal government, local level and concerned family, safe family resettlement procedures will be initiated and implemented in order to help families living in straw roof houses build their homes with galvanized sheets. In collaboration with the province and local level governments, 28 efforts will be made to find solution to the housing problems faced by landless people. 156. Families living in geographically remote and disaster prone areas will be encouraged to shift to the nearest integrated settlement through the support and cooperation of the local level. 157. I have allocated necessary budget for the construction of Federal Parliament building. Necessary budget will be provided to prepare integrated infrastructure development master plan for the provincial capitals and local level centers. 158. I have allocated budget to develop cities as Mega City, Green City and Smart City on the basis of their potentiality. Emphasis will be placed on construction of urban infrastructure along with all the necessary amenities including entertainment. The program will focus on resurrecting cities with historical and cultural importance. 159. I have allocated necessary budget for infrastructure development and beautification of 21 districts headquarter cities (including Terai Madhesh district headquarters), under intensive urban development programs. 160. I have allocated necessary budget for the construction of International Conference Center and International Exhibition Center in Butwal. Necessary arrangements will be made to construct International Conference Center with public private cooperative participation in the land belonging to SajhaYatyat Cooperatives in Lalitpur. 161. I have allocated necessary budget for the continuation of the Bagmati Reform Project. Various rivers and streams including Bagmati, Bishnumati, Rudramati, Icchumati, Indramati, Manohara, Hanumante and Nakkhu Khola that form the Kathmandu Valley civilization will be made free from sewerage and wastes. 1 62. I have allocated Rs. 33.38 billion for housing and urban development. 29 Transport Infrastructure 163. I have allocated necessary budget to upgrade the East-West Highway after completing detail study report to begin construction and upgradation work on it, construct Kathmandu-Nijgarh Fast track, Puspalal (Middle Hills) Highway and Postal Highway and develop the national highways as express highways. 164. T he road that connects the district headquarters of southern bordering districts to the East-West Highway will be expanded to link them to the Puspalal (Middle Hill) highway. 165. Madan Bhandari Highway from Shantinagar of Jhapa to Rupaal of Dadeldhura district will be expanded to Patapur of Mechi M unicipality, which is to be developed as agriculture, commercial and industrial corridor to Chure and the valley of Inner Madhesh. For the construction of this highway, I have allocated Rs. 4.50 billion. 166. Major portion of the construction work on Kimathanka-Rani highway and Rashuwagadhi-Galcchhi-Thori highway will be completed. Kaligandaki corridor, which is currently under construction, will be expanded from North frontier Korala to South frontier Triveni. 167. I have made necessaryarrangements for developing infrastructure to connect each province with at least one international commercial transit point. I have allocated necessary budget for the construction and upgradation of Gamgadi-Nagma, Simikot-Hilsa and Dunai-Marimalapas section, connecting the Seti Highway (Tikapur-Lode-Chainpur-Taklakot) and Karnali Highway to the northern border via Dolpa, Mugu and Humla. Road infrastructure of Province number 7 will be expanded to connect it to national highways of border area. 168. I have allocated Rs. 3.53 billion to initiate Terai-Madesh Road Infrastructure Special Programme in the local level in southern bordering districts as well as regions lacking adequate physical infrastructure. 30 169. Construction of a tunnel will be started in the Naubise-Nagdhunga section of the Prithivi Highway from the coming fiscal year. Feasibility study and construction of tunnel along Tokha-KhahareGurgubhanjyang, Siddababa section of Butwal-Palpa road of Siddhartha Highway, Koteshwar-Jadibuti section of Araniko Highway, Khurkot-Chiyabari section of B.P. Highway, BipinagarKhutiya-Dipayal section and Thankot-Chitlang section of Ganesh Man Singh Road will be carried out from coming fiscal year. 170. An infrastructure consulting company will be established with the involvement of the private sector for providing services related to highly advanced technology used in the construction of complex types of tunnels and providing heavy construction equipment and other equipment used in construction of infrastructure. Such a company will also be used for conducting feasibility study, detailed design and construction of mega infrastructure projects. 171. I have allocated Rs. 5.25 billion for making highway bridges to be constructed around touristic places artistic and complete strategic road bridges to facilitate smooth transportation. Bridges that are currently under-construction and fall in the jurisdiction of province and local levels will be handed over to the province and local level upon their completion. 172. Completed road projects will be brought under the Road Board for sustainable road repair and management. The financial resources will be managed through road tax based on the principle of road user pay. Repair and maintenance of large roads will be transferred to the Road Board. I have increased budget of Road Board to Rs. 5.50 billion. 173. Feasibility study and Detailed Project Report will be prepared for the Kakadvitta-Bardibas, Butwal-Gaddachowki, Mechi-MahakaliKathmandu link road and the Mechi-Mahakali electric railway in the coming fiscal year. Construction work will be started by preparing Detailed Project Report of Birgunj-Kathmandu and Bardibas-Simara railway and Rasuwagadhi-Kathmandu-PokharaLumbini railway in the coming fiscal year. 31 174. Feasibility study and Detailed Project Report will be prepared for the operation of cable car, metrorail and monorail in the Kathmandu valley. 175. Feasibility study will be conducted for waterway in Koshi, G andaki and Karnali River. 176. I have allocated Rs. 109.38 billion for the development of transport infrastructure. Reconstruction after Earthquake and Flooding 177. I have provisioned necessary budget to complete the construction work of private housing of earthquake victims in the coming fiscal year. I have also provisioned budget for construction of houses for victims of natural disaster including flood, landslide and forest fire. 178. Construction work will further be expedited to complete other reconstruction projects on time. I have allocated Rs. 151.08 billion for reconstruction work. 179. Pre-preparation will be made for disaster management with the collaboration of provincial and local level. Untimely loss of life brought about by natural disasters will be brought to an end. For this, I have allocated necessary budget. Local Infrastructure 180. Local Infrastructure Development Partnership Program will be operated under cost sharing mechanism with the provincial and local level for the development of necessary infrastructure at the local levels. The program will be implemented with the coordination and facilitation of elected representatives in the federal, province and local level. The project will be selected and monitored by a committee comprising of Federal Parliament members of that particular constituency, members of province assembly and heads of local level and coordinated by the directly elected member of Representative Assembly. Under this program, maximum of five projects related to road, drinking water, irrigation and river control will be carried out in one constituency 32 to be completed within three years. For this program, I have allocated Rs. 40 million for each constituency. 181. Various funds that remain unused in District Coordination Committee’s account will be utilized to construct administrative buildings of municipality, rural municipality and ward offices on cost sharing basis with the local level. 182. Terai-Madhesh Sambridhi Karyakram (prosperity program) will be implemented for intensive social and economic transformation and carrying out physical infrastructure development programs in an integrated way in those areas of Terai-Madhesh that comparatively rank low in human development index. The existing boarder area development program will be incorporated with this program. I have allocated Rs. 2.03 billion for this program. 183. I have allocated Rs. 3.11 billion for the construction of suspension bridges in all potential locations within the next three years. 184. Garib Sanga Bisheshwor Karyakram will be carried out in the areas having extreme poverty in coordination with other poverty reduction programs. Information and Communication 185. Mediums of mass communication will be made impartial, respectful, responsible, professional and competitive in order to ensure access of Nepalis to all types of mass medias. Nepal Television and Radio Nepal will be integrated and operated as a public broadcasting corporation. 186. I have made budget provision for construction of a modern building with research and practical class facility under the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, Tribhuvan University in order to encourage quality, professional and fair practice in Nepali journalism. I have provisioned a grant for activating journalist accident insurance and journalist endorsement fund in the benefit and welfare of working journalists. 187. Department of Printing and Printing Development Committee will be converted into a Securities Printing Company having sufficient 33 infrastructure for quality printing with high security feature. I have allocated Rs. 650 million for this purpose. 188. Establishment of a film city under public, private and foreign partnership will be encouraged. Box office system with electronic ticketing for film distribution and exhibition will be implemented for making revenue such as Value added tax in film business and collection of film development fee systematic. 189. Optical fiber lay down will be expedited to all local levels by utilizing the amount of Rural Telecommunication Development Fund. 190. Necessary reform activities will be taken forward in order to make postal service competitive, professional and reliable. Transport Management 191. Public transport will be made systematic and competitive. Vehicle registration, renewal and issuance of driving license will be managed from provincial level. 192. Various programs including the establishment of data center, use of embossed number in vehicles and preparation of smart card will be carried out in order to strengthen transport management. 193. I have made necessary arrangements to encourage the production, import and use of public transport based on electric technology to be operated immediately in urban area and throughout the country in the long term. 194. I have allocated Rs. 1.43 billion for transport management. Financial Sector 195. All Nepali citizens will have enhanced access to financial services. Nepal Rastra Bank Act, Insurance Act and Securities Act will be amended in a timely manner for enhancing the capacity of the regulatory authorities. 196. A campaign to open bank accounts for all Nepali citizens within a year will be launched. Collection of government revenue and 34 payment of expenditure through electronic system will be arranged from next year onwards. 197. Micro Finance Institutions and Cooperatives will be connected to the network of Credit Information Centre. Foreign employment loan, loan for educated but unemployed, education loan, including all other loans without collateral will be covered under this net. Defaulters will be prevented from receiving any citizenry facilities. 198. A system will be put in place to increase the limit of mandatory insurance of the deposit of the small depositors and credit guarantee of small non-collateralized loans of Rs. 300 thousand and Rs. 1 million respectively. All insurance companies will be required to extend the limit of micro-insurance transaction of up to 10 percent of their total insurance transaction at minimum within the next two years. 199. All productive sector companies having capital of one billion or more will be required to convert themselves into public limited companies and get listed with the Stock Exchange. New institutions like private equity, venture fund and hedge fund will be introduced into the capital market. Credit rating assessment of Nepal will get conducted with the objectives of easing the process of foreign investment and credit placement. 200. Regulatory authorities will be arranged for the effective regulation of Citizen Investment Fund, Employment Provident Fund and Deposit and Credit Guarantee Funds. Postal Bank will be deestablished and arrangements will be made to hand over the funds along with accounts to the commercial banks. 201. Program based on grants and credits operated by Poverty Alleviation Fund, Rural Self-Reliance Fund and Youth Employment Fund will be managed in a coordinative way. The amounts thus remained unused in various government funds will be utilized for capital formation. 202. The Infrastructure Development Bank, which is in the process of establishment, will be brought into operation with the joint effort of the government and private sector. Policy measures will be 35 introduced to make financial sector invest in the infrastructure development through the instruments of blended financing. 203. I have made up mandatory arrangements that require all life and non-life insurance companies make reinsurance of at least 20 percent of total insurance premium with Nepal Reinsurance Company. Investment Promotion 204. All procedures from business registration to cancellation will be made predictable, simple, transparent and IT-based. Nepal will be developed as an international investment destination. Foreign investments will be attracted as a complementary of national capital formation. 205. Legal and institutional procedures will be simplified to promote investment. The arrangement will be made to deliver one stop services with specific timeline. Investment Board will be strengthened by amending Investment Board Act to make the board as an institution to permit investment through one-door system made-up by public private partnership. 206. Development Cooperation Policy will be revised to enhance international economic cooperation for Nepal. Clear procedures will be formulated to channelize development cooperation fund to the province and local level. Corruption Control and Good Governance 207. The government will adopt zero-tolerance policy against corruption activities along with prohibiting corruption. Both parties involved in corruption and those who cause corruption will be brought within the scope of law by eliminating the protection and backing for corruption. 208. All the services provided by the government will be transformed gradually to electronic system by adopting the best practices in information technology sector. 36 209. The government will prepare quality standards for all types of services. The decision-making authority will be made accountable and responsible for the result by making the decision-making process prompt and transparent. Financial discipline will be followed strictly. 210. International cooperation will be enhanced in controlling money laundering and organized crime through mutual legal assistance. Laws related to elimination of money laundering and financial investment in terrorist activities will be implemented effectively. 211. An act regarding operation and management of public enterprises will be formulated next fiscal year for strengthening public enterprises. 212. Monitoring and coordination of national and international nongovernmental organizations will be made effective. Arrangements will be made where Non-government Organizations (NGOs)will have to compulsorily submit a report to concerned authorities detailing mobilizations of financial assistance, programs run (under the assistance) and achievements garnered as a result and make it public. Law and Justice 213. Reform in judiciary system; promptness in adjudication and free legal service will be expanded to assure equal access to justice. Necessary laws will be formulated to execute fundamental rights within the timeline stipulated by the constitution. Process of formulation of laws related to the concurrent list of three tiers of government and other areas will be accelerated for implementation of the constitution. 214. The third strategic plan of judiciary will be implemented for the effectiveness of the judiciary. Priority will be given to implement the second strategic plan of Attorney General. 215. Remaining tasks of the peace process will be completed. I have arranged necessary resources to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) and the Commission for Investigation of Enforced 37 Disappeared Persons (CIEDP) related to the transitional justice to complete their tasks within designated timeframe. 216. Ghar Ghar Ma Manab Adhikar will be implemented at grassroots level to ensure human rights for all citizens. International Relation 217. After reviewing all diplomatic missions of Nepal abroad, ineffective missions will be dissolved. Necessary procedures will be initiated to upgrade underlying passport service to e-passport system. 218. Mobilization of economic diplomacy with friendly nations will be made more effective to promote mutual cooperation in the areas of trade, investment, tourism, labor, environment and technology. National Security 219. Conducive environment will be created for development and prosperity of the nation by maintaining effective peace and security as well as law and order, thereby giving the people a semblance of safety and security. Nepal Army, Nepal Police and Armed Police Force (APF) will be modernized and made more professional by enhancing their capacity. Bunker to Barrack program of Nepal Army has been continued. 220. Cyber and Human Trafficking Bureau will be established under Nepal Police in view of changing scenario of cyber-crime and human trafficking. 221. As part of the policy to distribute National Identity Card to all citizens within five years, the National Identity Card program will be expanded to 15 more districts in the upcoming fiscal year. 222. Daily subsistence expenditure for prisoners has been increased to Rs. 60 from Rs. 45. Existing amount for milk to the children of prisoners has been increased to Rs 35 from Rs. 10. 38 Economic Plan and Statistics 223. I have allocated necessary budget to complete ongoing Economic Census and to commence the preliminary works of Industrial Survey 2020 and Population Census 2021. 224. The Think Tank will be provisioned to recommend the government to make annual budget as well as periodic and long-term plan more realistic, objective and implementable based on study and research. Personnel Management 225. Transfer, Reward, Punishment, Career Development and Capacity Development opportunities for government employee will be made based on performance evaluation. A high-level task-force will be formed to study and recommend retirement and pension age, terms of service and fringe benefits of public sector employees in view of increasing pension liability. 226. The dearness allowance of public sector employees has been increased to reach Rs. 2000 per month from 17 July, 2018. Similarly, the dress facility being provided to civil servants, health service employees and teachers of community schools has been increased to Rs. 10 thousand. A High-Level Pay Commission will be formed to review and make recommendations about the salary and fringe benefits of the public-sector employees. 227. The amount of life insurance of public sector employees has been increased to Rs 200 thousand. Its premium will be borne equally by the employee and the Government. 228. Personnel housing plan will be started by the Provident Fund. These houses to be constructed at a very low cost will be distributed by adding ten percent to the actual cost to the beneficiary based on certain criteria. Budget Implementation 229. All the concerned District Treasury Offices will release the budget based on the programs incorporated in Line Ministry Budgetary Information System (LMBIS) of the Ministry of Finance. Moreover, 39 that will be considered as a budget authorization and approved program. 230. The Secretary of the respective ministry will be made responsible for overall budget execution. Similarly, respective Department Head and Project Chief will be made responsible for project implementation. 231. Provisions of public procurement regarding Mobilization Advance, among others, will be amended in the Public Procurement Act. 232. Project Implementation Directive Committee will be formed under the chairmanship of the Right Honorable Prime Minister in order to regularly undertake result-based monitoring of large sized projects of national importance. 233. Prevailing legal provisions related to user committees will be amended to manage user committees to be formed for construction of public sector development and public service delivery. 234. Separate Act will be formulated for effective implementation of national priority projects. Third party monitoring system will be developed to review cost estimation of selected projects. Contractors that do not complete work on time will be penalized. 235. Public Expenditure Review Commission will be formed to recommend on prioritization and restructuring of development projects and reform of overall public expenditure system. Right Honorable Speaker, Right Honorable Chairman, 236. Now I present the estimation of resource management and budget allocation for the implementation of above mentioned sectoral policy and programs. 237. I have allocated Rs.1315.16 billion to implement policy and programs of coming fiscal year. Out of total allocation, Rs. 845.45 billion or 64.3 percent is for current expenditure, Rs.314 billion or 40 23.9 percent for capital expenditure and Rs.155.72 billion or 11.8 percent for financing. 238. Out of total estimated source of financing for the coming fiscal year, Rs.831.32 billion will be financed through revenue mobilization and Rs. 58.82 billion from foreign grants which will lead to the deficit of Rs.425.03 billion. Rupees 253.03 billion will be arranged from foreign loan to meet this deficit. After financing from revenue and foreign aid, there will be a net deficit of Rs. 172 billion, which will be financed through domestic borrowing. Right Honorable Speaker, Right Honorable Chairman, 239. Now, let me allow to present the revenue policy and programs for FY 2018/19. 240. Being inspired from ideal tax system as expected by taxpayers, investors and citizens, I present the following objectives of the revenue policy and programs for coming fiscal year: a) to widen the revenue base by bringing all kinds of economic activities into the tax net, b) to promote manufacturing industries and business by developing investment friendly tax system in order to expand economic activities, c) to make tax system more progressive and equitable through timely reforms in tax structure and tax rates, d) to ensure efficient, professional, fair and improved tax administration for the taxpayers through revenue administration reform, e) to control tax evasion and leakage with focus on compliance of tax law, f) to increase revenue by expansion of tax base of non-tax revenue and revision of tax rates. 41 241. Now, I would like to present the proposed tax rates and tax reform programs for coming fiscal year. Indirect Tax 242. I have made arrangement for compulsory registration in Value Added Tax for the transactions of goods including liquor, cigarette, sanitary, electronics and construction materials within the areas of metropolitan and sub metropolitan city. 243. I have repealed the current provision of direct refund of Value Added Tax amount collected from the consumer to the registered taxpayers. Similarly, I have repealed the provision of Value Added Tax refund paid by importer on import of mobile phone sets against the sell to registered taxpayers. 244. I have repealed the education service fee and health service tax being collected on the consumption of education and health service. I have also repealed the provision of collecting Value Added Tax in the health service provided by private hospitals. 245. I have made arrangement to exempt the penalty against tax return non-filing for those taxpayers who have not submitted Value Added Tax return for long time but intend to comply regularly. 246. I have increased the excise duty on alcohol, cigarette, tobaccobased goods which are injurious to health. I have provisioned to collect the excise duty in the import and domestic production of coca mixed chocolates, perfume, toys, refrigerator and other similar goods. 247. I have increased the excise duty in four-wheeler vehicles above one thousand CC and motorcycle above one hundred and fifty CC. I have increased the excise duty on alcohol and tobaccobased goods. I have also provisioned Health Risk Tax on the production and import of cigarettes at the rate of twenty-five paisa per cigarette from today. 42 248. I have provisioned to provide full exemption of excise duty, Value Added Tax and 75 percent exemption of customs duty on import of one bus with thirty or more seats capacity by public schools for their use. 249. I have made provision to allow Nepali passengers returning from abroad to import raw gold up to one hundred grams by paying duty. Direct Tax 250. I have proposed to change the existing fifteen and twenty five percent individual income tax rate to 10, 20 and 30 percent for developing the equitable tax system through progressive tax. I have proposed to impose 20 percent surcharge on income having more than Rs. 2 million. 251. I have proposed to reduce threshold from rupees three million to rupees one million for the exemption of capital gain tax, being imposed on the transaction of house and land. 252. I have proposed to provide dividend tax exemption also to all manufacturing and tourism industries by expanding existing provision of such exemption provided in the capital formation through cumulative profit and reinvestment in own industry. I have proposed to provide subsidy in income tax for the industries providing direct employment to more than one hundred people. 253. I have proposed to provide 50 percent income tax exemption on prevailing tax to promote tea, textile and dairy industries. I have proposed to provide income tax exemption for five years to promote small scale entrepreneurship business and additional two years of exemption for such industries owned by women. 254. I have proposed to provide 10 percent exemption on income tax for three years as an incentive to transfer private limited company with paid up capital of Rs. 500 million and/or above into the public limited company. 43 255. I have proposed to provide 20 percent tax exemption on income tax rate to community hospitals. I have proposed to exempt past fiscal years tax and fees to social organizations if they submit statements as per prevailing income tax act. 256. I have made provision for exemption of social security tax for the individuals participated in the Contributory Provident Fund. I have increased the limit of life insurance premium up to Rs. 25 thousand allowable for the deduction in income tax. Tax Administration 257. All the measures will be taken to maintain honesty, transparency, fairness and integrity in both taxpayers and tax administration. Strict action will be taken against those involved in revenue leakage and non-compliance with tax laws. Market will be intensively monitored to control the non-issuance of invoice. Special penalty will be imposed on the spot against non-compliance and non-issuance of invoice. 258. An automated system will be developed to exchange the Information of financial statements submitted by tax payers to the tax administration and financial institutions in order to ensure financial transparency. 259. I have made an arrangement to bring those taxpayers into tax net who were unable to comply with tax system due to various reasons, if they submit tax returns of the past three years. 260. Trade through letter of credit will be encouraged. Risk management on custom clearance will be made based on investigation. I have made provision of restriction to import goods other than similar nature and certain quantity at once. The border area will be intensively monitored to control illegal trade. 261. Declaration, classification and valuation of goods will be made realistic and based on transaction value by exchanging electronic information to inter-country customs administration. 44 262. Liquor, beer, cigarettes and tobacco-based industries will be allowed to establish only in the specific places of industrial area specified by the Government. 263. A taxpayer information management system will be developed to integrate tax payer’s information prevailed in the different regulatory agencies. It will be made mandatory to issue electronic invoice for transparency in transaction and access of tax administration by improving tax invoice system. Electronically issued invoices will be linked to the central invoice monitoring system of Inland Revenue Department. 264. The rates of nontax revenue will be reviewed to increase revenue collection by making it cost effective. The existing policy provisions for the non-tax revenue collection will be reviewed. Right Honorable Speaker, Right Honorable Chairman, 265. I have incorporated the actual expenditure of FY 2016/17, the revised estimates for FY 2017/18 and the estimated annual income and expenditure statements of FY 2018/19 in the Schedule. I have separately presented the detail statement about financial and technical assistance to be received from international development partners, and assistance to be mobilized through international non-governmental organizations. I have presented the progress report of line ministries for the current fiscal year today. 266. I believe that fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution and rights of Nepali people will be ascertained, and the effectiveness and public service quality will be enhanced through the implementation of the budget that I have presented. Furthermore, I believe that the citizens will feel positive changes in economic and social sectors, as the construction and rebuilding will be accelerated. 45 267. I anticipate creation of jobs for additional five hundred thousand people and economic growth rate around 8 percent in the next fiscal year. Inflation will be contained at 6.5 percent. This economic growth rate will lay the foundation to make the economy more dynamic and start the journey towards development and prosperity. Right Honorable Speaker, Right Honorable Chairman, 268. I would like to express my gratitude to the Right Honorable President, Right Honorable Vice President, and Right Honorable Prime Minister for the guidance while formulating this budget. I am grateful to Right Honorable Speaker of the House of Representative, the Right Honorable Chairman of the National Assembly, Honorable Ministers, Heads and Members of the Constitutional Bodies, prominent leaders of the major political parties and former finance ministers for the suggestions, support and inspiration. I am grateful to Honorable Members of the House of Representative and the National Assembly for the suggestions with extensive discussion on the principles and priority of the budget. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the private sector, cooperative sector, civil society, civil servants and all Nepali sisters and brothers for their suggestions in the budget. 269. Finally, I would like to express heartfelt gratitude to all the taxpayers and international development partners who have continued their support for the economic and social development of Nepal. In addition, I expect to have full support from all the sides in budget implementation. Thank You! Disclaimer: If the content in English and Nepali language contradicts, the latter will be valid. ��तव ेदन नं. 01 पाना नं. 1 / 1 2017/18 2016/17 Actual Estimate GoN Grant Loan 2018/19 Revenue Sharing Federal Total Grant Expenditure Taxes Non Tax Revenue Cash Balance of Last Year and Revenue Sharing to Province /Local Grants Compensation of employees Use of goods and services Interest and Services Subsidies Grants Social Security Other Expenditure Capital Expenditure 5,53,86,65 55,31,30 3,41,80 0 31,93,23 1,18,83,58 57,12,99 10,02,37 1,05,64 2,44,00,03 87,28,22 28,60 2,08,74,94 6,57,75,15 70,59,85 0 0 36,16,39 1,12,93,95 79,90,43 25,57,35 91,25 3,90,39,76 88,51,85 1,34,04 2,38,66,24 8,38,34,79 1,07,21,01 0 1,14,24,00 58,81,55 1,17,33,04 86,79,35 26,46,12 83,63 4,99,40,29 1,13,06,45 1,55,87 3,13,99,82 8,38,34,79 1,07,21,01 0 1,14,24,00 0 1,17,12,57 72,49,08 26,46,12 74,87 3,97,21,11 1,12,65,02 1,55,87 1,80,52,36 58,81,55 16,49 9,86,55 8,40 19,55,72 15,71 25,60,72 3,98 4,43,72 36 82,63,46 25,72 1,07,86,74 7,28,35,00 36,16,39 9,38,24,87 6,12,59,75 31,93,23 7,27,36,37 8,31,31,80 58,81,55 11,59,44,57 1,95,23,98 58,81,55 55,43,59 8,31,31,80 0 9,08,77,00 1,95,23,98 Budget Surplus (-) /Deficit -3,37,96 77,45,20 2,69,31,22 1,73,73,48 82,83,39 Financing -1,11,65,87 Internal Loan Less Internal Loan Refund Domestic Share Investments Foreign Share Investments External Amortizations Less External Borrowing Domestic Amortization Less Domestic Borrowing 28,91,09 2,94,00 16,87,46 2,83,31 22,70,34 58,01,30 38,56,14 88,33,80 16,05,47 0 38,19,19 3,61,78 30,25,80 74,91,98 20,13,87 1,45,00,00 38,97,13 0 57,91,05 17,00 23,59,97 2,53,02,82 35,06,45 1,72,00,00 8,80,58 26,90,80 17,00 23,59,97 35,06,45 1,72,00,00 1,00,00 2,37,96 29,16,55 28,62,29 2,53,02,82 Under/Over (-) 43,42,63 62,07,61 0 0 0 0 -39,40,76 -2,69,31,22 -1,95,23,98 3,37,96 -77,45,20 Budget Summary 2075/76 Annex 1 Source Foreign Heading Fiscal Year Net Internal Loan Net Investment External Net Borrowing Domestic Net Borrowing 25,97,09 19,70,77 -35,30,96 -49,77,66 16,05,47 41,80,97 -44,66,18 -1,24,86,13 38,97,13 58,08,05 -2,29,42,85 -1,36,93,55 8,80,58 27,07,80 23,59,97 -1,36,93,55 1,00,00 2,37,96 29,16,55 28,62,29 -2,53,02,82 Revenue Revenue Sharing Provincial and Local Grant Recurrent Capital 6,12,59,75 0 31,93,23 5,18,61,43 2,08,74,94 7,28,35,00 0 36,16,39 6,99,58,63 2,38,66,24 9,45,55,80 1,14,24,00 58,81,55 8,45,44,75 3,13,99,82 9,45,55,80 1,14,24,00 0 7,28,24,64 1,80,52,36 58,81,55 29,82,87 25,60,72 87,37,24 1,07,86,74 Revised (Rs. in '00000') Revenue & Grant 8901335 7645139 7317864 2017/18 2016/17 Existing Measures New Measures 2018/19 Taxes Taxes on income, profits, and capital gains Taxes on payroll and workforce Taxes on property Taxes on goods and services Payable by individuals & Sole Traders Payable by entrerprizes and corporations Taxes on Investment and other income Social Security Taxes on payroll Recurrent taxes on immovable property Taxes on financial and capital transactions VAT Excise Taxes on specific services 34,85,46 92,64,85 17,34,31 4,13,69 13,59 18,15,81 1,61,06,83 84,80,54 1,61,20 Individual or Sole Traders Remuneration Tax Capital Gain Individuals Company Profit Tax Government Corporations Companies Company Profit Tax Public Limited Companies Company Profit Tax Private LimitedCcompanies Company Profit Tax Other Institutions Capital gain Entity Taxes on Rent & Lease Income Interest Dividend Other Investment Income Tax on gambling, lottery, souviner and grants Taxes on other income Social Security Taxes on payroll Annual Property Tax House and Land Registration VAT Production VAT Import VAT Goods, Sales & Distribution VAT Services & Contracts VAT Services, Tourism VAT Telephone, Insurance & Air Travel VAT Non Registered(Reverse Charge) Tobacco Alcohol Beer Excise on other produced items Import Duties 12,89,08 14,76,49 7,19,89 7,40,54 33,51,33 32,34,07 5,61,17 13,77,74 4,11,15 8,59,60 3,73,16 5,33 12,28 72,79 4,13,69 13,59 18,15,81 21,15,25 99,91,46 15,04,80 10,19,66 1,87,88 10,25,51 2,62,27 10,98,98 18,73,09 11,19,43 6,34,57 37,54,47 14,34,62 16,43,18 8,01,16 8,24,14 37,29,69 35,99,20 6,24,53 15,33,28 3,56,54 15,23,90 4,15,29 5,93 13,66 81,01 4,60,40 17,12 15,74,00 25,91,18 1,22,39,54 18,50,90 12,54,18 2,31,09 12,61,38 3,22,59 13,77,90 23,48,48 14,03,54 7,95,63 46,28,10 23,62,79 27,98,14 6,47,28 12,15,40 54,90,58 57,10,34 11,19,58 7,58 0 17,34,99 5,55,18 3,57 20,75 1,36,35 7,25,37 8,01 0 32,75,40 1,82,67,80 23,83,65 17,87,19 4,34,91 18,00,12 5,20,03 18,89,63 28,84,94 16,96,53 11,39,80 58,84,81 21,26,51 25,18,33 5,82,55 10,93,86 49,41,52 51,39,31 10,07,62 6,82 0 15,61,49 4,99,66 3,21 18,67 1,22,71 6,52,83 7,21 0 29,47,86 1,64,41,02 21,45,28 16,08,47 3,91,42 16,20,11 4,68,03 17,00,67 25,96,45 15,26,88 10,25,82 52,96,33 2,36,28 2,79,81 64,73 1,21,54 5,49,06 5,71,03 1,11,96 76 0 1,73,50 55,52 36 2,08 13,64 72,54 80 0 3,27,54 18,26,78 2,38,37 1,78,72 43,49 1,80,01 52,00 1,88,96 2,88,49 1,69,65 1,13,98 5,88,48 11111 11112 11113 11121 11122 11123 11124 11125 11131 11132 11133 11134 11135 11136 11211 11311 11341 11411 11412 11413 11414 11415 11416 11417 11421 11422 11423 11424 11425 38,78,96 1,03,10,84 23,96,33 4,60,40 17,12 15,74,00 1,97,50,86 1,05,53,65 2,02,08 58,08,21 1,35,43,48 24,50,84 7,25,37 8,01 0 2,84,69,10 1,34,95,71 82,27 52,27,39 1,21,89,13 22,05,74 6,52,83 7,21 0 2,56,22,19 1,21,46,15 74,04 5,80,82 13,54,35 2,45,10 72,54 80 0 28,46,91 13,49,56 8,23 21,80,27 72,54 80 44,53,08 1,96,22,26 6,52,83 7,21 4,00,77,71 2,18,02,53 7,25,37 8,01 4,45,30,79 1,65,86,13 4,60,40 15,91,12 3,43,12,24 1,44,84,62 4,13,69 18,29,40 2,78,56,88 6,57,75,15 5,53,86,65 8,38,34,79 83,83,51 7,54,51,28 Receipts of Revenue and Grant Estimates Actual Estimate Heading Fiscal Year 2075/76 Annex -2 Revised (Rs. in '00000 2017/18 2016/17 Existing Measures New Measures 2018/19 Non Tax Revenue Taxes on international trade and transactions Other taxes Property Income Taxes on use of goods and on permission to use Customs and other import duties Taxes on exports Other taxes on international trade and transactions Registration Fee Ownership Certificate Charge Interest Dividends 31,08,31 98,41,03 12,52 4,52,33 1,59,85 3,36,33 2,20,77 15,15,88 Foreign Employment Services Health Services Education ServicesEducation Institute Education ServicesAboard Study Vehicle Tax Taxes on the use of infrastructure Road Maintenance and Improvement Duty Road Construction and Maintenance Duty Infrastructure Tax Import duties Indian Excise Refund Fees Local Development Fees Export duty Export Service Charge Agriculture service charge on imports Other Income related to Customs Firm Registration Fee Agency Registeration Fee Driving Licence & Vehicle Ownership Certificate Charge Fire Arms Registration Interest from financial institutions Interest from commercial institutions Interest from industrial institutions Interest from service oriented institutions Interest from other institutions Dividend from Financial Institutions Dividend from Commercial Institutions Dividend from Industrial Institution Dividend from Service Oriented Organization Dividend from Other Institutions 7 86,72 42,91 31,50 8,80,42 1,40,24 3,17,16 8,48,48 9,22,01 98,40,91 7 5 12,14 38 4,11,24 41,09 1,53,59 6,26 3,35,76 57 17,00 9 13 2,02,85 70 7,97,44 14,62 3,08 7,00,74 0 9 1,12,34 51,70 37,95 10,70,42 1,76,70 3,99,62 10,69,09 10,89,82 1,15,87,83 7 6 10,56 38 4,78,32 56,54 1,93,52 12,51 4,84,33 1,14 22,76 12 17 2,71,51 94 10,67,46 19,57 4,12 5,94,29 0 37 0 0 81,90 0 2,20,26 3,31,06 6,91,75 12,40,64 1,54,83,54 10 20 1,65,36 1,39 6,58,39 1,02,77 3,40,19 13,46 0 2,69 50,24 40 19 2,13,49 4,91 15,39,79 27 6,83 14,54,80 1,31 33 0 0 73,71 0 1,98,23 2,97,95 6,22,57 11,16,58 1,39,35,19 9 18 1,48,82 1,25 5,92,55 92,49 3,06,17 12,11 0 2,42 45,22 36 17 1,92,14 4,42 13,85,81 24 6,15 13,09,32 1,18 4 0 0 8,19 0 22,03 33,11 69,18 1,24,06 15,48,35 1 2 16,54 14 65,84 10,28 34,02 1,35 0 27 5,02 4 2 21,35 49 1,53,98 3 68 1,45,48 13 11441 11442 11443 11444 11451 11452 11453 11454 11455 11511 11512 11513 11521 11522 11561 11562 11611 11612 11621 11622 14111 14112 14113 14114 14115 14121 14122 14123 14124 14125 38,05,65 1,15,87,96 10,94 5,34,86 2,06,03 4,85,47 2,95,50 16,85,44 24,83,71 1,54,83,84 1,66,75 7,61,16 3,53,65 2,69 2,69,23 30,03,00 22,35,33 1,39,35,46 1,50,07 6,85,04 3,18,28 2,42 2,42,31 27,02,70 2,48,38 15,48,38 16,68 76,12 35,37 27 26,92 3,00,30 16,41,18 35,64 4,93,79 1,47,70,57 3,20,70 44,44,19 1,64,11,75 3,56,34 49,37,98 1,21,33,76 6,91,50 32,97,64 1,03,05,88 4,96,18 27,20,35 70,59,85 55,31,30 1,07,21,01 10,72,12 96,48,89 Actual Estimate Heading Revised 2017/18 2016/17 Existing Measures New Measures 2018/19 Sales of Goods and Services Penalties Fines & Forfeiture Voluntary Transfers other than Grants Miscellaneous Revenue Rent & Royalty Sales of Goods Administrative Fees Penalties Fines & Forfeiture Voluntary Transfers other than Grants Administrative Fee Immigration and Tourism Other Revenue 9,83,70 8,57,23 6,06,30 74,57 9 7,45,62 5,25,98 Rent on Lease of Government Property Royalty on Casino Operations. Royalty from Mine Extraction Income & Royalty from Water Resources Sector Hydro Power Projects Royalty and Other Income from the Sales of Forest Products Other Royalty Sales of agriculture product Sale of Government Property Sales of other items Telephone Services Fee Charge for the use of Telephone Services Water Connection & Supply Fee for use of Water for Irrigation Charges for Consumption of Electricity Judicial Fee Duty Charges for use of Postal Services Income from Education Sector Exam Fee Transport Sector Export Import License Fee Other Administrative Fees Judicial Penalty, Fines and Forfeiture Administrative Penalty, Fines and Forfeiture Recurrent Capital Charges for Issuing Passports Visa Fees Permit for Mountaineering and Trekking Other Fee from Tourists Pollution Control Fees 62,88 22,06 41,36 1,91,07 1,56,71 5,09,62 15,07 28,37 14,34 6,55,33 1,43,84 8 18 2 94,84 43,69 46,90 33,70 61,35 12,38 3,13,44 14,15 60,42 8 1 4,40,05 2,24,52 80,41 64 1,07,88 84,17 29,53 55,36 2,55,75 2,09,76 6,82,13 20,17 37,97 19,20 8,77,09 1,92,52 10 24 3 1,26,94 58,47 62,77 45,11 82,12 16,57 4,19,50 18,94 80,86 11 1 5,88,96 3,00,50 1,07,63 86 1,44,39 84,03 34,01 15,73 2,33,31 2,86,00 10,12,67 29,30 40,23 25,19 10,48,92 2,71,56 17 27 16 1,30,72 74,38 1,18,86 83,38 54,16 17,77 8,29,15 26,51 91,18 16 15 19,72,62 5,39,61 1,66,15 1,39 1,96,11 75,63 30,61 14,16 2,09,98 2,57,40 9,11,40 26,37 36,21 22,67 9,44,03 2,44,40 15 24 14 1,17,65 66,94 1,06,97 75,04 48,74 15,99 7,46,23 23,86 82,06 14 13 17,75,36 4,85,65 1,49,54 1,25 1,76,50 8,40 3,40 1,57 23,33 28,60 1,01,27 2,93 4,02 2,52 1,04,89 27,16 2 3 2 13,07 7,44 11,89 8,34 5,42 1,78 82,92 2,65 9,12 2 2 1,97,26 53,96 16,61 14 19,61 14151 14152 14153 14154 14155 14156 14211 14212 14213 14214 14215 14216 14217 14218 14221 14222 14223 14224 14225 14226 14227 14311 14312 14411 14412 14511 14512 14513 14514 14521 13,16,70 11,47,32 8,11,48 99,80 12 9,97,95 7,03,98 16,65,75 14,15,80 13,08,42 1,17,69 31 26,79,77 2,59,73 14,99,18 12,74,21 11,77,56 1,05,92 27 24,11,80 2,33,76 1,66,57 1,41,59 1,30,86 11,77 4 2,67,97 25,97 2,72,45 11,77 4 2,94,07 24,51,77 1,05,92 27 26,46,74 27,24,22 1,17,69 31 29,40,81 19,58,80 99,80 12 17,03,49 14,63,53 74,57 9 12,72,76 Actual Estimate Heading Revised 2017/18 2016/17 Existing Measures New Measures 2018/19 Cash Balance of Last Year and Irregularities Cash Balance of Last Year and Irregularities Capital Revenue Cash Balance of Last Year and Irregularities 1,16 3,41,80 Other Revenue Sales of Government Land and Building Cash Balance of Last Year 4,18,10 1,16 3,41,80 5,59,59 1,56 0 63,62 1,31 0 57,26 1,18 0 6,36 13 0 14522 14531 15111 1,56 0 1,31 0 1,18 0 13 0 0 0 0 0 3,41,80 0 3,41,80 0 0 0 Total Revenue : 94,55,63 8,51,00,17 9,45,55,80 7,28,35,00 6,12,59,75 Actual Estimate Heading Revised 60,42,00 53,82,00 8,31,31,80 Revenue Sharing Province : Revenue Federal : Grant : 58,81,55 Revenue Sharing Local Level: Revenue & Grant Total: 8,90,13,35 GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICE DEFENCE PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY ECONOMIC AFFAIRS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES HEALTH RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION Executive and legislative organs, financial and fiscal affairs, external affairs Foreign economic aid General services Basic research R General public services General public services n.e.c. Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of government Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services Fire-protection services Law courts Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting Fuel and energy Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport Communication Other industries R Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. Waste management Waste water management R Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. Housing development Community development Water supply Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services Hospital services Public health services R Health 1500204 14080 295224 679 2013 14350 577143 1563766 447093 1814 378 350985 149 60133 19103 44642 1549827 795379 846132 46701 1264805 56291 181018 13547 77717 43748 66603 42171 74658 296132 43211 266262 60156 5567 51719 188174 326242 81730 1500204 9680 295224 679 2013 13659 577143 208693 447093 1814 378 350985 149 60133 19103 44642 1546216 641796 834340 46701 1122730 56291 152373 5471 77717 40573 65202 42171 71808 183423 29965 200537 5435 4822 40110 153077 154910 78288 0 4400 0 0 0 691 0 502986 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3611 129879 1800 0 142075 0 28588 8076 0 0 1401 0 700 112709 11797 56545 51715 745 11158 10036 16133 2626 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 852087 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 23704 9992 0 0 0 57 0 0 3175 0 0 2150 0 1449 9180 3006 0 451 25061 155199 816 852087 0 0 33753 5325 13635 181527 4815 508077 0 0 314029 2101 232766 40698 5773 2607295 449285 475012 4483635 219754 419360 431207 60476 3967459 449285 475012 4831417 227180 665761 653432 71064 30 3 4 37 2 5 5 1 Percentage Functional Expenditure Estimate( Including Financing) Annex 3 Total Fedral Province Local Level Heading Fiscal Year 2018/19 (Rs. in '00000') EDUCATION SOCIAL PROTECTION Recreational and sporting services Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services R Recreation, culture and religion Pre-primary and primary education Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education R Education Education n.e.c. Family and children Unemployment Social exclusion n.e.c. R Social protection Social protection n.e.c. 40143 27883 2363 675 602412 373738 338550 153 27022 3348 31000 411865 6710 16209 35802 21636 2363 675 400 100145 335793 153 25661 2199 31000 411865 6710 6795 2804 2969 0 0 4895 19846 2757 0 1075 1149 0 0 0 1175 1537 3278 0 0 597117 253747 0 0 286 0 0 0 0 8239 851150 8239 28573 2324 462152 458569 1341875 469132 10 4 1950531 Grand Total 1134341 10066745 13151617 Percentage Total Fedral Province Local Level Heading Heading 101 102 202 204 206 208 210 212 214 218 220 222 224 226 228 230 232 234 250 301 305 307 308 311 312 313 314 325 326 327 329 337 340 343 345 347 350 358 365 370 371 391 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 31508 80627 0 41690 57946 0 8125 0 0 16854 79759 1175 2804 0 117234 28573 0 119602 41847 3611 0 2256 378 12398 45032 7833 8012 7518 5223 2051 523 924 1215 401 401 401 401 401 401 2926 1562862 192828 104492 562754 5081 401405 240575 543144 52034 52364 360 165875 1093837 18812 41895 451082 333789 1345087 56458 743688 564197 42939 6526 2256 378 12398 45032 7833 8012 7518 5223 2051 523 924 1215 401 401 401 401 401 401 2926 1562862 192828 72984 472135 5081 337121 179454 543144 40574 52364 0 145205 1014078 9398 37554 451082 216555 465364 56458 611367 340823 39328 6526 Province Total Fedral 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 9992 0 22594 3175 0 3335 0 360 3816 0 8239 1537 0 0 851150 0 12719 181527 0 0 Local Level President Deputy President Federal Parliament Courts Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Public Service Commission Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Council of Justice National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission National Women Commission National Dalit Commission National Inclusion Commission Indigenous Nationalities Commission Madhesi Commission Tharu Commission Muslim Commission Chief of State Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Defence Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Education Ministry of Communications and Information Technology Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security National Planning Commission Secretariat .017 .003 .094 .342 .06 .061 .057 .04 .016 .004 .007 .009 .003 .003 .003 .003 .003 .003 .022 11.883 1.466 .795 4.279 .039 3.052 1.829 4.13 .396 .398 .003 1.261 8.317 .143 .319 3.43 2.538 10.228 .429 5.655 4.29 .326 .05 % Administrative Expenditure Estimate (Including Financing) Annex -4 Fiscal Year 2018/19 (Rs. in '00000') Heading 501 502 503 504 601 602 701 801 0 0 0 0 0 0 502986 0 1134341 Grand Total 953781 571901 238582 40771 610000 700730 502986 852087 953781 571901 238582 40771 610000 700730 0 0 10066745 13151617 Province Total Fedral 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 852087 1950531 Local Level MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous State (Fiscal Equalization Grant ) Local Level (Fiscal Equalization Grant ) 7.252 4.349 1.814 .31 4.638 5.328 3.825 6.479 % Recurrent 8,454,475 383,985 21100 22100 22200 22300 22400 22500 22600 Wages and salaries Rent & Services Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets Offices Materials & Services Consultancy and Other Services fee Program Expenses Monitoring,Evaluation & Travelling Expenses 1,173,304 51,492 56,818 46,950 136,576 219,443 27,188 1,304 0 32 131 26,621 25,911 231 21111 21112 21113 21114 21119 21121 21122 21123 22111 22112 22121 22122 22211 22212 22213 22311 22312 22313 22314 22321 22411 22412 22511 22512 22521 22522 22529 22531 Salary Local Allowances Dearness Allowance Field Allowance Other Allowance Clothing Fooding Medical Expense Water and Electricity Communication House Rent Other Rent Fuel and Oil Vehicles Operation & Maintenance Insurance General Office Expenses Feedds for Animals & Birds Books and Materials Fuel and Oil For Administrative Purposes Repair and Maintenance of Public Property Consultancy and Services Expenses Other Services fee Employee Training Skill Development and Awareness Training Program Production Materials/Services Program Expenses Other Program Expenses Medicine Purchases 841,053 14,971 91,271 186 34,715 41,399 131,815 17,894 19,870 8,983 21,079 1,560 27,191 25,207 4,420 33,921 1,686 431 1,718 9,194 92,008 44,568 12,280 25,711 9,491 128,700 4,141 39,120 1,303 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 14 18 0 131 0 0 0 0 26,448 173 462 1,952 0 6,846 29 16,622 Total Cash Direct Payment and Commodity Grant 8,070,490 1,172,000 51,492 56,786 46,819 109,955 193,532 26,957 839,750 14,971 91,271 186 34,715 41,398 131,815 17,894 19,870 8,983 21,079 1,560 27,177 25,189 4,420 33,790 1,686 431 1,718 9,194 65,560 44,395 11,818 23,759 9,491 121,854 4,112 22,498 Cash Total 7,282,464 788,026 1,171,257 50,318 55,819 44,717 79,669 152,184 24,233 743 1,174 967 2,102 30,286 41,348 2,724 839,394 14,962 91,255 186 34,373 41,389 131,811 17,887 19,739 8,729 20,437 1,413 26,702 24,790 4,327 31,779 1,686 417 1,679 9,156 36,887 42,782 9,205 7,108 8,981 103,915 3,434 19,541 356 9 16 0 342 9 4 7 131 254 642 147 475 399 93 2,011 0 14 39 38 28,673 1,613 2,613 16,651 510 17,939 678 2,957 GoN Foreign Cash Economic Heads and Expenditure Line Items Cash and Non Cash Expenditure by Economic Heads and Line Items Fiscal Year -2018/19 Annex 5 (Rs. in '00000') 22700 22900 24100 24200 25100 25200 26200 26300 26400 26500 Miscellaneous Recurrent Contingencies Interest on Foreign Loan Interest on Internal Loan Subsidies to Public Corporations Subsidies to Private Enterprises Grant to Social Service Grant to Local body Grant to Social Service Grant to State 13,285 316,183 43,356 221,256 7,821 542 4,078 46,048 1,659,031 1,234,341 8 0 0 0 840 0 0 1,484 297,568 17,361 22611 22612 22613 22614 22711 22911 24111 24211 25111 25112 25211 25212 26211 26311 26312 26322 26411 26412 26413 26421 26422 26423 26511 26512 Monitoring & Evaluation Expenses Travelling Expenses Travelling Expenses of VIPs & Delegations Other Travelling Expenses Miscellaneous Recurrent Contingencies Interest on Foreign Loan Interest on Internal Loan Operating Subsidy Non-Financial Corporations Capital Subsidy Non-Financial Corporations Operating Subsidies to Non-Financial Private Enterprises Capital Subsidies to Non-Financial Private Enterprises International Membership Fee& Assistance Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies Conditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies Conditional Capital Grant to Local Bodies Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Other Institutions & Individuals Unconditional Capital Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Unconditional Capital Grant to Other Institutions & Individuals Fiscal Equalization Grant Conditional Grant 12,563 13,720 685 220 13,285 316,183 43,356 221,256 5,608 2,213 42 500 4,078 8,693 6,252 31,103 34,068 324,292 109,341 54,080 177,115 960,135 502,986 631,355 146 85 0 0 8 0 0 0 840 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,484 655 381 2,712 0 43,420 250,400 0 17,361 Total Cash Direct Payment and Commodity Grant 13,277 316,183 43,356 221,256 6,981 542 4,078 44,564 1,361,463 1,216,980 12,417 13,635 685 220 13,277 316,183 43,356 221,256 4,768 2,213 42 500 4,078 8,693 6,252 29,619 33,413 323,911 106,629 54,080 133,695 709,735 502,986 613,994 Cash Total 12,919 305,049 43,356 221,256 6,968 519 4,078 27,970 904,224 1,075,568 358 11,134 0 0 13 23 0 16,594 457,239 141,412 10,646 12,682 685 220 12,919 305,049 43,356 221,256 4,755 2,213 19 500 4,078 8,693 2,258 17,019 33,385 265,717 104,730 54,080 117,758 328,554 502,986 472,582 1,771 953 0 0 358 11,134 0 0 13 0 23 0 0 0 3,994 12,600 28 58,194 1,899 0 15,937 381,181 0 141,412 GoN Foreign Cash Economic Heads and Expenditure Line Items Capital 3,139,982 374,775 26600 27100 27200 27300 28100 28200 29100 29200 29300 29400 29500 Grant to Local Level Social Security Scholarships Retirement Benefits Property Related Expenditure Refunds Land Building Furniture & Fittings Vehicles Plant & Machinery 2,050,531 433,922 14,746 681,977 43 15,544 321,662 699,091 14,762 14,426 140,930 12,468 0 26 0 0 0 0 92,137 47 416 9,303 26513 26514 26611 26612 26613 26614 27111 27112 27211 27311 27312 27313 27314 27315 28141 28211 28212 28213 29111 29211 29221 29231 29311 29411 Complementary Grant Special Grant Fiscal Equalization Grant Conditional Grant Complementary Grant Special Grant Conditional Social Security Subsidy Other Unconditional Social Assistance Scholarships Pensions and Disability Allowance Gratuity Accumulated Leave Medical Facility Deceased Staff Assistance Land Rent Revenue Refund Judicial Refund Other Refund Land Acquisition Building Purchase Building Construction Capital Formation Building Furniture & Fixtures Vehicles 50,000 50,000 852,075 1,098,456 50,000 50,000 421,887 12,035 14,746 462,316 71,055 69,606 74,000 5,000 43 8,044 1,100 6,400 321,662 400 691,169 7,522 14,762 14,426 0 0 0 12,468 0 0 0 0 26 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 92,137 0 47 416 Total Cash Direct Payment and Commodity Grant 2,765,207 2,038,063 433,922 14,720 681,977 43 15,544 321,662 606,954 14,715 14,010 131,627 50,000 50,000 852,075 1,085,988 50,000 50,000 421,887 12,035 14,720 462,316 71,055 69,606 74,000 5,000 43 8,044 1,100 6,400 321,662 400 599,032 7,522 14,715 14,010 Cash Total 1,805,236 959,971 1,960,271 433,922 10,659 681,921 43 15,544 311,758 322,482 9,011 10,787 115,585 77,792 0 4,061 56 0 0 9,904 284,472 5,704 3,223 16,042 50,000 50,000 852,075 1,008,196 50,000 50,000 421,887 12,035 10,659 462,316 71,001 69,604 74,000 5,000 43 8,044 1,100 6,400 311,758 400 316,124 5,958 9,011 10,787 0 0 0 77,792 0 0 0 0 4,061 0 54 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 9,904 0 282,908 1,564 5,704 3,223 GoN Foreign Cash Economic Heads and Expenditure Line Items 13,151,617 Grand Total 1,270,811 Finance 1,557,160 512,051 29600 29700 29800 31100 31200 32100 32200 Civil Works Capital Research & Consultancy Capital Contingencies Net Internal Loan Net Investment External Net Borrowing Domestic Net Borrowing 1,702,852 151,946 94,313 389,713 580,805 235,997 350,645 239,627 33,245 0 232,026 280,025 0 0 29511 29611 29621 29711 29712 29811 31111 31211 31221 32111 32211 Plant & Machinery Civil Works Construction Capital Formation Capital Research & Consultancy Software Development and Purchase Capital Contingencies Internal Loan to Corporations Share InvestmentsCorporations Foreign Share Investments External Amortization Domestic Amortization 140,930 1,682,633 20,219 139,143 12,803 94,313 389,713 579,105 1,700 235,997 350,645 9,303 239,627 0 31,237 2,008 0 232,026 280,025 0 0 0 Total Cash Direct Payment and Commodity Grant 11,880,806 1,045,109 1,463,225 118,701 94,313 157,687 300,780 235,997 350,645 131,627 1,443,006 20,219 107,906 10,795 94,313 157,687 299,080 1,700 235,997 350,645 Cash Total 10,033,180 1,847,626 945,480 99,629 882,858 58,442 94,313 88,058 270,780 235,997 350,645 580,367 60,259 0 69,629 30,000 0 0 115,585 865,827 17,031 53,278 5,164 94,313 88,058 269,080 1,700 235,997 350,645 16,042 577,179 3,188 54,628 5,631 0 69,629 30,000 0 0 0 GoN Foreign Cash Economic Heads and Expenditure Line Items 2017/18 Estimate GON Grant Loan Expenditure by Economic Heads and LineItem(Including Financing) 2016/17 Annex 8 Recurrent Expenditure Compensation of employees Grants Wages and salaries Grant to Local Level Grant to Local body Grant to Social Service Grant to Social Service 1,173,304 2,050,531 46,048 4,078 1,659,031 1,173,304 4,994,029 8,454,475 Salary Local Allowances Dearness Allowance Field Allowance Other Allowance Clothing Fooding Medical Expense Fiscal Equalization Grant Conditional Grant Complementary Grant Special Grant Unconditional Capital Grant to Local Bodies Conditional Capital Grant to Local Bodies Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies Conditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies International Membership Fee& Assistance Unconditional Capital Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Unconditional Capital Grant to Other Institutions & Individuals Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Other Institutions & Individuals 841,053 14,971 91,271 186 34,715 41,399 131,815 17,894 852,075 1,098,456 50,000 50,000 31,103 8,693 6,252 4,078 54,080 177,115 960,135 34,068 324,292 109,341 839,394 14,962 91,255 186 34,373 41,389 131,811 17,887 852,075 1,008,196 50,000 50,000 17,019 8,693 2,258 4,078 54,080 117,758 328,554 33,385 265,717 104,730 1,414 5 11 210 3 4 2 54,091 741 3,921 15,319 65,118 683 16,506 3,495 245 4 5 132 7 5 36,169 13,343 73 44,038 566,463 42,069 1,116 Wages and salaries in cash Wages and salaries in kind Grant to Local Level Capital Grant to Local Body Recurrent Grant to Local Body International Membership Fee& A Capital Grant Recurrent Grant 982,196 191,108 2,050,531 31,103 14,945 4,078 1,191,330 467,701 21000 26000 21100 26600 26300 26200 26400 21110 21120 26610 26320 26310 26210 26420 26410 21111 21112 21113 21114 21119 21121 21122 21123 26611 26612 26613 26614 26321 26322 26311 26312 26211 26421 26422 26423 26411 26412 26413 5,186,143 Actual 1,188,358 547,373 2,516 1,890,114 1,129,395 2,455,560 83,187 8,409 1,312,703 1,129,395 3,903,976 1,188,358 2,440,003 6,995,863 919,902 13,897 32,678 2,103 46,981 31,833 137,384 3,580 248,670 166,659 18,743 113,301 2,516 140,694 169,738 515,833 35,619 977,079 51,151 850,092 11,830 28,988 1,659 54,911 59,738 114,767 7,410 1,504,325 951,235 2,101 56,984 16,284 7,818 8,409 121,956 148,729 617,354 39,581 309,784 75,299 1,015,561 172,797 415,329 132,044 2,516 826,265 1,063,849 947,480 181,915 2,455,560 59,085 24,102 8,409 888,039 424,664 2018/19 Heading Source Fiscal Year 2018/19 7282464 1171257 3972111 1171257 1960271 27970 4078 904224 980170 191087 1960271 17019 10951 4078 500392 403832 298287 1649 195572 1640 9 54091 741 3921 0 80437 20684 1649 54091 4662 0 101121 873724 398 826346 398 36169 13416 0 653686 386 12 36169 13343 73 0 610501 43185 (Rs. in '00000') 2017/18 Estimate GON Grant Loan 2016/17 Interest and Services Other Expenditure Social Security Subsidies Grant to State Interest on Foreign Loan Interest on Internal Loan Property Related Expenditure Refunds Retirement Benefits Scholarships Social Security Subsidies to Private Enterprises 1,234,341 43,356 221,256 43 15,544 681,977 14,746 433,922 542 264,612 15,587 1,130,645 8,363 Fiscal Equalization Grant Conditional Grant Complementary Grant Special Grant Interest on Foreign Loan Interest on Internal Loan Land Rent Revenue Refund Judicial Refund Other Refund Pensions and Disability Allowance Gratuity Accumulated Leave Medical Facility Deceased Staff Assistance Scholarships Conditional Social Security Subsidy Other Unconditional Social Assistance Operating Subsidies to Financial Private Enterprises Operating Subsidies to NonFinancial Private Enterprises 502,986 631,355 50,000 50,000 43,356 221,256 43 8,044 1,100 6,400 462,316 71,055 69,606 74,000 5,000 14,746 421,887 12,035 42 502,986 472,582 50,000 50,000 43,356 221,256 43 8,044 1,100 6,400 462,316 71,001 69,604 74,000 5,000 10,659 421,887 12,035 19 35,698 23 1 1,547 123,075 31 1 2,540 23 Grant to State Interest on Foreign Loan Interest on Internal Loan Land Rent Refunds Retirement Benefits Scholarships Social Security Subsidies to Financial Enterprise Subsidies to Non-Financial Enter 1,234,341 43,356 221,256 43 15,544 681,977 14,746 433,922 542 24000 28000 27000 25000 26500 24100 24200 28100 28200 27300 27200 27100 25200 26510 24110 24210 28140 28210 27310 27210 27110 25220 25210 26511 26512 26513 26514 24111 24211 28141 28211 28212 28213 27311 27312 27313 27314 27315 27211 27111 27112 25221 25211 Actual 32,635 67,602 66 2,794 476,229 20,432 376,161 4,214 44,117 37,824 217,911 52 13,352 518,478 10,548 356,159 1,636 255,735 13,404 885,185 9,125 100,237 2,860 872,822 10,564 32,635 67,602 66 1,616 865 313 372,931 4,278 39,849 58,764 407 20,432 366,140 10,021 1,945 44,117 37,824 217,911 52 6,643 1,162 5,547 389,032 25,868 33,809 65,616 4,153 10,548 345,032 11,127 5 174 32,635 67,602 66 2,794 476,229 20,432 376,161 4,214 44,117 37,824 217,911 52 13,352 518,478 10,548 356,159 5 1,631 2018/19 Heading Source 264612 15587 1126502 7487 1075568 43356 221256 43 15544 681921 10659 433922 519 1075568 43356 221256 43 15544 681921 10659 433922 0 519 0 0 1571 840 35698 0 0 0 0 24 1547 0 0 0 35698 0 0 0 0 24 1547 0 0 0 0 2572 36 123075 0 0 0 0 32 2540 0 23 123075 0 0 0 0 32 2540 0 0 23 2017/18 Estimate GON Grant Loan 2016/17 Use of goods and services Subsidies to Public Corporations Consultancy and Other Services fee Miscellaneous Monitoring,Evaluation & Travelling Expenses Offices Materials & Services Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets Program Expenses 7,821 136,576 13,285 27,188 46,950 56,818 219,443 867,935 Capital Subsidies to NonFinancial Private Enterprises Operating Subsidy NonFinancial Corporations Capital Subsidy Non-Financial Corporations Consultancy and Services Expenses Other Services fee Miscellaneous Monitoring & Evaluation Expenses Travelling Expenses Travelling Expenses of VIPs & Delegations Other Travelling Expenses General Office Expenses Feedds for Animals & Birds Books and Materials Fuel and Oil For Administrative Purposes Repair and Maintenance of Public Property Fuel and Oil Vehicles Operation & Maintenance Insurance Employee Training Skill Development and Awareness Training Program Medicine Purchases 500 5,608 2,213 92,008 44,568 13,285 12,563 13,720 685 220 33,921 1,686 431 1,718 9,194 27,191 25,207 4,420 12,280 25,711 39,120 500 4,755 2,213 36,887 42,782 12,919 10,646 12,682 685 220 31,779 1,686 417 1,679 9,156 26,702 24,790 4,327 9,205 7,108 19,541 840 35,568 1,251 179 1,558 972 888 10 22 30 282 232 53 2,725 4,787 19,579 13 19,553 535 187 359 66 1,254 4 17 8 207 185 40 350 13,816 Operating Subsidy Non Financia Consultancy and Other Services f Miscellaneous Monitoring,Evaluation & Travellin Office Materials & Services Repair and Maintenance of Public Operation & Maintenance of Capi Consultancy and Other Services f Medicines 7,821 136,576 13,285 27,188 37,756 9,194 56,818 37,991 39,120 22000 25100 22400 22700 22600 22300 22200 22500 25110 22410 22710 22610 22310 22320 22210 22510 22530 25212 25111 25112 22411 22412 22711 22611 22612 22613 22614 22311 22312 22313 22314 22321 22211 22212 22213 22511 22512 22531 Actual 6,350 74,087 69,428 40,829 47,917 47,146 246,609 7,489 93,002 119,976 55,649 49,989 56,982 271,351 799,043 571,299 2,269 4,465 1,885 27,319 46,768 69,428 18,010 21,999 447 373 39,303 1,318 330 2,183 4,783 25,266 19,135 2,745 10,206 35,469 42,411 1,457 5,373 2,116 41,312 51,690 119,976 18,110 36,082 1,100 357 33,096 1,356 411 1,937 13,189 29,881 23,175 3,926 11,575 38,501 40,633 6,350 74,087 69,428 40,829 43,134 4,783 47,146 45,675 42,411 7,489 93,002 119,976 55,649 36,800 13,189 56,982 50,076 40,633 2018/19 Heading Source 724908 6968 79669 12919 24233 44717 55819 152184 6968 79669 12919 24233 35561 9156 55819 16313 19541 98655 840 36819 179 2530 920 30 567 7512 19579 840 36819 179 2530 950 567 45786 44372 13 20088 187 425 1283 432 21473 13 20088 187 425 1275 8 432 14166 0 2017/18 Estimate GON Grant Loan 2016/17 Capital Expenditure Capital Expenditure Recurrent Contingencies Rent & Services Building Capital Contingencies Capital Research & Consultancy Civil Works Furniture & Fittings Land 316,183 51,492 699,091 94,313 151,946 1,702,852 14,762 321,662 3,139,982 3,139,982 Production Materials/Services Program Expenses Other Program Expenses Recurrent Contingencies House Rent Other Rent Water and Electricity Communication Building Purchase Building Construction Capital Formation Building Capital Contingencies Capital Research & Consultancy Software Development and Purchase Capital Formation Civil Works Construction Furniture & Fixtures Land Acquisition 9,491 128,700 4,141 316,183 21,079 1,560 19,870 8,983 400 691,169 7,522 94,313 139,143 12,803 20,219 1,682,633 14,762 321,662 8,981 103,915 3,434 305,049 20,437 1,413 19,739 8,729 400 316,124 5,958 94,313 53,278 5,164 17,031 865,827 9,011 311,758 37 17,951 707 11,134 411 89 66 124 104,044 26,115 6,573 871 106,735 299 473 6,834 231 58 65 130 271,001 1,564 59,750 1,066 2,317 710,071 5,452 9,904 Production Materials and Program Recurrent Contingencies Rent Utilities Building Purchase Building Construction Capital Formation Building Capital Contingencies Capital Research & Consultancy Capital Formation Civil Works Civil Works Construction Furniture & Fittings Land Acquisition 142,332 316,183 22,639 28,853 400 691,169 7,522 94,313 151,946 20,219 1,682,633 14,762 321,662 29000 22900 22100 29200 29800 29700 29600 29300 29100 22520 22910 22120 22110 29210 29220 29230 29810 29710 29620 29610 29310 29110 22521 22522 22529 22911 22121 22122 22111 22112 29211 29221 29231 29811 29711 29712 29621 29611 29311 29111 2,087,494 Actual 45,283 248,861 80,782 1,514,565 11,182 87,929 93,436 58,658 457,452 3,493 103,092 1,475,003 14,784 176,645 2,386,624 2,087,494 2,386,624 9,793 145,678 3,052 18,051 7,056 13,247 6,929 243,643 5,218 76,867 3,915 79,795 1,434,770 11,182 87,929 9,656 159,336 11,650 93,436 19,131 12,920 17,831 8,776 15,145 436,229 6,078 3,493 93,457 9,635 69,030 1,405,973 14,784 176,645 158,523 25,107 20,176 243,643 5,218 80,782 79,795 1,434,770 11,182 87,929 180,642 93,436 32,051 26,607 15,145 436,229 6,078 3,493 103,092 69,030 1,405,973 14,784 176,645 2018/19 Heading Source 1805236 1805236 305049 50318 322482 94313 58442 882858 9011 311758 116330 305049 21850 28468 400 316124 5958 94313 58442 17031 865827 9011 311758 256072 256072 18695 11134 500 190 0 104044 0 0 32688 871 106735 299 0 11134 690 104044 0 32688 107606 299 0 1078674 1078674 0 484 272565 0 60816 712388 5452 9904 7307 0 289 195 0 271001 1564 0 60816 2317 710071 5452 9904 2017/18 Estimate GON Grant Loan 2016/17 Finance Fiscal Policy (L-R) Liquidity Plant & Machinery Vehicles Net Internal Loan Net Investment Domestic Net Borrowing External Net Borrowing 140,930 14,426 389,713 580,805 350,645 235,997 970,518 586,642 1,557,160 2,530,282 Total Expenditure 588,155 10,033,180 13,151,617 Plant & Machinery Vehicles Internal Loan to Corporations Share InvestmentsCorporations Foreign Share Investments Domestic Amortization External Amortization 140,930 14,426 389,713 579,105 1,700 350,645 235,997 115,585 10,787 88,058 269,080 1,700 350,645 235,997 10,006 1,429 10,000 23,796 15,339 2,210 291,655 286,229 Plant & Machinery Vehicles Internal Loan Domestic Share Investments Foreign Share Investments Domestic Amortization External Amortizations 140,930 14,426 389,713 579,105 1,700 350,645 235,997 31000 32000 29500 29400 31100 31200 32200 32100 29510 29410 31110 31210 31220 32210 32110 29511 29411 31111 31211 31221 32211 32111 1,098,834 Actual 77,043 67,132 289,109 197,077 385,614 227,034 102,154 54,001 160,547 418,097 201,387 302,580 578,644 503,967 486,186 612,648 1,082,611 10,465,098 8,372,471 77,043 67,132 289,109 168,746 28,331 385,614 227,034 102,154 54,001 160,547 381,919 36,178 201,387 302,580 77,043 67,132 289,109 168,746 28,331 385,614 227,034 102,154 54,001 160,547 381,919 36,178 201,387 302,580 2018/19 Heading Source 945480 358838 586642 115585 10787 88058 270780 350645 235997 115585 10787 88058 269080 1700 350645 235997 33796 33796 0 10006 1429 10000 23796 0 0 0 10006 1429 10000 23796 0 0 577884 577884 0 15339 2210 291655 286229 0 0 15339 2210 291655 286229 0 0 0 Report No. 07 Page 1 / 4 2017/18 Estimate Source Grant Loan Fiscal Year 2018/19 2016/17 Actual Head of State Constitutional Body President Deputy President Federal Parliament Courts Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Public Service Commission Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Council of Justice National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission National Women Commission National Dalit Commission National Inclusion Commission Indigenous Nationalities Commission Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital 1,249 1,251 336 39 14,152 1,001 33,882 8,097 5,585 2,938 3,283 599 5,920 818 56,930 676 1,501 207 532 87 1,199 287 322 62 13,610 883 35,763 8,215 7,164 2,609 3,488 1,837 5,543 568 98,041 4,651 1,717 146 550 77 329 486 1,181 1,075 342 36 12,257 141 36,132 8,900 5,096 2,737 4,547 3,465 6,841 677 4,616 607 2,019 32 495 28 749 175 1,144 71 278 123 278 123 1,181 1,075 342 36 12,257 141 36,132 8,900 5,096 2,737 4,547 3,465 6,841 677 4,616 607 2,019 32 495 28 749 175 382 10 278 123 278 123 762 61 823 2,256 378 12 398 45 032 7,833 8,012 7,518 5,223 2,051 523 924 392 401 401 401 2,256 378 12,398 45,032 7,833 8,012 7,518 5,223 2,051 523 924 1,215 401 401 401 1,486 384 14,493 43,978 9,773 5,325 6,111 102,692 1,863 627 815 2,500 375 15,153 41,979 8,523 3,882 6,738 57,606 1,708 619 1,870 186,964 2,875 136,208 2,634 96,061 823 2,634 95 238 Administrative Expenditure Estimates (Including Financing) Annex 7 2018/19 Heading GON Revised (Rs. in '00000') Report No. 07 Page 2 / 4 2017/18 Estimate Source Grant Loan 2016/17 Actual Ministry Madhesi Commission Tharu Commission Muslim Commission Chief of State Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Finance Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent 432,707 126,116 40,915 14,322 35,097 16,839 64,354 316,205 78,273 1,840 95 291,819 55,718 12,021 215,364 517,339 35,344 36,323 12,798 34,887 928 359 597,036 412,601 74,369 11,983 43,311 40,159 67,215 338,887 33,118 1,737 83 252,481 51,111 13,042 163,756 467,141 51,264 31,462 10,255 29,670 278 123 278 123 278 123 278 123 2,303 623 973,965 588,897 125,470 67,358 24,945 48,039 50,859 404,539 16,737 5,039 42 299,336 37,785 6,665 172,789 473,321 69,823 28,438 12,136 36,044 278 123 278 123 278 123 278 123 2,303 623 309,086 228,556 96,543 26,878 24,067 34,009 30,916 329,538 6,737 3,262 24 270,714 29,440 4,969 83,952 473,218 39,268 24,428 12,050 36,044 52,553 85,743 27,909 32,498 868 6,129 18,142 14,670 1,777 18 21,965 914 324 8,039 103 30,555 4,010 86 612,326 274,598 1,018 7,982 10 7,901 1,801 60,331 10,000 6,657 7,431 1,372 80,798 886 924 9 000 7 911 72 132 14 088 82 170 138 296 60 407 6,997 32 812 1,795 22 879 8,363 30 658 4,096 401 401 401 2,926 537 642 123 421 58 076 367 191 3,286 300 154 88 921 512 486 36 478 52 364 401 401 401 2,926 1,562,862 192,828 72,984 472,135 5,081 337,121 179,454 543,144 40,574 52,364 1,287 1,009,637 86,352 83,470 439,220 1,820 303,592 176,798 518,405 41,717 53,461 558,823 55,237 51,936 458,832 1,935 347,537 227,385 552,683 49,121 38,942 5,759,121 6,649,631 6,852,285 1 803 154 463 747 4 585 384 2018/19 Heading GON Revised Report No. 07 Page 3 / 4 2017/18 Estimate Source Grant Loan 2016/17 Actual MOF Financing & Debt Service Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Defence Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Education Ministry of Communications and Information Technology Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security National Planning Commission Secretariat MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Finance 4,055 85,420 46,583 61,064 717,322 19,826 2,026 22,501 8,072 359,593 72,293 45,791 109,658 78,824 19,063 1,091,006 3,441 41,798 8,331 879,378 226,823 332,723 58,500 8,197 1,348 6,944 675 407,913 23,791 89,216 38,858 58,597 706,903 16,206 1,797 19,899 145 332,926 82,041 67,445 180,222 7,906 6,544 455,377 3,179 38,075 10,338 478,164 186,926 208,410 35,792 7,228 1,609 10,231 615 521,101 16,320 103,046 42,159 76,796 937,282 9,273 125 15,157 22,397 383,241 67,841 45,554 171,001 462,062 3,302 43,264 13,194 535,982 75,385 255,112 85,711 37,254 2,074 6,278 248 953,781 16,320 91,678 19,634 76,796 422,895 5,822 125 15,157 22,397 383,241 67,841 25,515 73,312 404,244 3,260 43,264 13,194 514,646 55,265 198,959 23,557 36,134 1,999 6,182 248 352,101 11,189 12,904 37,963 3,451 6,261 1,768 22,118 21 6,235 11,524 29,615 13,104 1,120 75 96 33,796 179 9,621 476,424 13,778 95,921 35,700 21 15,101 8,596 26,538 49,050 567,884 9 800 476 424 109 699 35 721 23 697 75 588 567 884 24 093 37 963 3,451 8,029 22 139 17 759 42 719 1,195 96 33 796 111 312 499 691 5,947 37 554 451 082 98 827 407 504 56 458 569 911 222 516 38 133 6,430 352 101 571 901 145,205 1,014,078 9,398 37,554 451,082 216,555 465,364 56,458 611,367 340,823 39,328 6,526 953,781 571,901 128,074 765,500 18,003 20,044 414,967 247,667 14,450 458,556 48,413 665,090 244,202 8,837 10,846 521,101 419,298 132,003 778,386 21,852 30,573 431,886 155,449 97,887 1,094,447 50,129 1,106,201 391,223 9,545 7,619 407,913 453,216 1,305,228 1,120,798 1,805,035 567 884 33 796 1 203 355 2018/19 Heading GON Revised Report No. 07 Page 4 / 4 2017/18 Estimate Source Grant Loan 2016/17 Actual MOF Miscellaneous State Local level MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous State Local Level Recurrent Finance Recurrent Finance Recurrent Finance Recurrent Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent 67,602 385,614 28,837 195,512 3,798 31,522 379,918 82,251 315 217,911 201,387 33,034 291,717 4,790 35,288 505,130 174,113 1,335 69,737 5,880 2,455,617 221,256 350,645 38,389 200,193 4,967 35,804 610,000 418,500 282,230 1,134,341 1,950,531 221,256 350,645 38,389 200,193 4,967 35,804 610,000 418,500 282,230 975,568 1,860,271 35,698 54,091 123,075 36,169 123 075 36 169 35 698 54 091 238 582 40 771 610 000 700 730 975 568 1 860 271 238,582 40,771 610,000 700,730 1,134,341 1,950,531 324,751 40,078 505,130 175,448 75,617 2,455,617 224,349 35,320 379,918 82,566 680,578 75,617 2,455,617 462,484 1,310,730 1,134,341 1,950,531 123 075 36 169 35 698 54 091 1 310 730 975 568 1 860 271 2 530 282 Total Expenditure 588 155 10 033 180 13,151,617 10,464,995 8,371,996 2018/19 Heading GON Revised 101 102 202 204 206 208 210 212 214 218 220 222 224 226 228 230 232 234 250 301 305 307 308 311 312 313 314 325 326 327 329 337 340 343 345 347 350 358 365 370 371 391 501 502 503 504 601 President Deputy President Federal Parliament Courts Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Public Service Commission Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Council of Justice National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission National Women Commission National Dalit Commission National Inclusion Commission Indigenous Nationalities Commission Madhesi Commission Tharu Commission Muslim Commission Chief of State Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Defence Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Education Ministry of Communications and Information Technology Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security National Planning Commission Secretariat MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits Gender Responsive Budget (Including Financing), Fiscal Year 2018/19 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Heading 22,56 3,78 1,23,98 4,50,32 78,33 80,12 75,18 52,23 20,51 5,23 9,24 12,15 4,01 4,01 4,01 4,01 4,01 4,01 29,26 1,56,28,62 19,28,28 10,44,92 56,27,54 50,81 40,14,05 24,05,75 54,31,44 5,20,34 5,23,64 3,60 16,58,75 1,09,38,37 1,88,12 4,18,95 45,10,82 33,37,89 1,34,50,87 5,64,58 74,36,88 56,41,97 4,29,39 65,26 95,37,81 57,19,01 23,85,82 4,07,71 61,00,00 22,56 3,78 1,23,98 4,50,32 78,33 80,12 38,57 52,23 0 5,23 9,24 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 29,26 3,81,91 19,07,12 5,18,53 2,56,31 47,98 5,68,64 92,22 21,55,83 2,46,02 5,13,10 0 1,66,34 27,32,13 0 23,90 1,30,52 3,38,10 33,65 3,66,61 4,03,91 0 3,11,07 33,77 35,67,88 57,19,01 23,85,82 4,07,71 51,50,00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4,01 4,01 4,01 4,01 4,01 4,01 0 0 21,16 1,97,68 23,56,16 2,83 22,68,86 14,84,07 32,72,07 7,70 10,54 3,60 10,70,67 74,33,87 47,89 3,95,05 43,80,30 19,07,01 33,87,66 1,97,97 62,10,61 26,01,40 87,59 31,49 59,69,93 0 0 0 9,50,00 0 0 0 0 0 0 36,61 0 20,51 0 0 12,15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,52,46,71 0 3,28,71 30,15,07 0 11,76,55 8,29,46 3,54 2,66,62 0 0 4,21,74 7,72,37 1,40,23 0 0 10,92,78 1,00,29,56 0 8,22,36 30,40,57 30,73 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total Neutral Annex-8 (Rs. in '00000 602 701 801 MOF Miscellaneous State (Fiscal Equalization Grant ) Local Level (Fiscal Equalization Grant ) Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Heading Grand Total 70,07,30 50,29,86 85,20,87 62,47,30 0 0 7,60,00 0 0 0 50,29,86 85,20,87 Total Neutral 5,08,37,00 4,50,80,17 3,55,99,00 Note : Gender Responsive Budget Classifications Basis of classification for Gender Responsive Budget are as follows: a) 50 oercent or more budget directly beneficial for womenDirectly Responsive b) 20 or more and less than 50 percent pf budget directly beneficial for women Indirect Responsive c) Less than 20 percent of budget directly beneficial for women Neutral Following indicators are used to assess the percentage above. Women Partcipation in formulation and implementation of Program Percentage Women Capacity Development Women's share in benefir Support in employment and income generating to women Quality reform in time consumption & minimization in of work to women Indicators 20 20 30 20 10 100 Total S.No. 1 2 3 4 5 Gender Responsive Amount Code Percent 1 2 3 Directly Indirectly Neutral 5,08,37,00 4,50,80,17 3,55,99,00 38.65 34.28 27.07 13,15,16,17 101 102 202 204 206 208 210 212 214 218 220 222 224 226 228 230 232 234 250 301 305 307 308 311 312 313 314 325 326 327 329 337 340 343 345 347 350 358 365 370 371 391 501 502 503 504 601 President Deputy President Federal Parliament Courts Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Public Service Commission Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Council of Justice National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission National Women Commission National Dalit Commission National Inclusion Commission Indigenous Nationalities Commission Madhesi Commission Tharu Commission Muslim Commission Chief of State Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Defence Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Education Ministry of Communications and Information Technology Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security National Planning Commission Secretariat MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits Prioritization of Budget (Including Financing) 1st Priority 2nd Priority Heading 2,256 378 12,398 45,032 7,833 8,012 7,518 5,223 2,051 523 924 1,215 401 401 401 401 401 401 2,926 1,562,862 192,828 104,492 562,754 5,081 401,405 240,575 543,144 52,034 52,364 360 165,875 1,093,837 18,812 41,895 451,082 333,789 1,345,087 56,458 743,688 564,197 42,939 6,526 953,781 571,901 238,582 40,771 610,000 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 3,487 9 281 26,880 1,278 110 477 0 1,545 69,835 0 0 2,202 7,194 1,240 1,263 20,615 454 77 27 171,200 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,050 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,962 149 1,015 274 6,548 680 4,640 10,022 1,408 0 34,464 3,766 938 0 10,033 20,280 159,385 5,750 14,233 58,753 1,736 836 0 0 0 0 0 1,075 36 141 8,898 2,737 3,465 677 607 32 28 175 71 123 123 123 123 123 123 623 588,897 67,358 48,032 417,789 33 37,504 145,909 68,545 12,026 15,843 0 40,614 867,447 125 22,397 65,639 163,807 2,062 11,931 54,770 85,257 1,997 221 782,581 350,645 200,193 35,804 0 1,181 342 12,257 35,082 5,096 4,547 6,841 4,616 2,019 495 749 1,144 278 278 278 278 278 278 2,303 973,965 123,508 56,304 140,463 4,765 357,072 67,106 468,681 29,876 34,636 360 89,252 152,789 17,749 19,498 373,208 142,508 1,182,400 37,514 654,070 419,733 39,129 5,442 0 221,256 38,389 4,967 610,000 Recurrent Total Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Annex 9 Fiscal Year 2018/19 (Rs. in '00000') 602 701 801 MOF Miscellaneous State Local Level 7,938,553 1st Priority 2nd Priority Heading Grand Total 700,730 502,986 852,087 236,230 0 0 178,000 0 0 46,000 0 0 240,500 502,986 852,087 Recurrent Total 4,152,729 515,922 544,413 13,151,617 Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 12,091,282 Priority Total 1,060,335 1.1 1.2 1.3 Executive and legislative organs, financial and fiscal affairs, ex Foreign economic aid General services 101 102 202 206 208 218 220 222 224 226 228 230 232 234 250 301 305 313 326 343 347 365 501 503 504 601 602 308 337 President Deputy President Federal Parliament Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Council of Justice National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission National Women Commission National Dalit Commission National Inclusion Commission Indigenous Nationalities Commission Madhesi Commission Tharu Commission Muslim Commission Chief of State Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration MOF Policy Financing MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Energy Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICE 01 658 0 0 931 Climate Budget , Fiscal Year 2018/19 Highly Relevant Relevant Annex 10 Description 1,075 36 141 2,737 3,465 0 175 71 123 123 123 123 123 123 623 907 8,282 0 16,255 19 49 356 39,000 200,193 35,804 0 257,230 0 0 2,256 378 12,398 7,833 8,012 17 924 1,215 401 401 401 401 401 401 2,926 18,846 54,641 760 51,119 1,752 640 4,998 39,000 238,582 40,771 540,000 470,730 2,680 7,000 1,181 342 12,257 5,096 4,547 17 749 1,144 278 278 278 278 278 278 2,303 17,939 46,359 0 34,864 1,733 591 4,642 0 38,389 4,967 540,000 213,500 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,603 7,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 77 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 102 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 658 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 9,603 49,940 0 77 20,994 0 9,603 49,940 932,288 0 179,697 567,156 0 44,593 1,500,204 9,680 295,224 1,246 3,308,893 59,593 1,351,391 970,113 5,692,167 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing (Rs. in '00000') 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 2.1 Basic research R General public services General public services n.e.c. Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of government Military defence 210 301 305 314 325 326 347 365 391 602 308 305 347 212 214 314 337 365 501 305 501 502 365 602 701 801 Public Service Commission Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration National Planning Commission Secretariat MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Energy Ministry of Finance Ministry of Urban Development Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Ministry of Home Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration MOF Miscellaneous State Local Level DEFENCE 02 0 273 0 0 0 0 0 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 677 81 8,107 3,561 160 65 1,800 4,894 248 25,000 638 3 0 607 32 647 500 60 52 180 5,000 350,645 0 0 0 0 7,518 1,578 80,106 133,034 6,067 1,245 1,920 27,230 6,526 30,000 679 96 1,917 5,223 2,051 2,384 639 3,310 52 242 5,000 571,901 8,693 200,000 1,134,341 1,950,531 6,841 1,497 1,599 129,473 5,373 1,180 120 22,336 6,278 5,000 41 93 0 4,616 2,019 1,737 139 750 0 62 0 221,256 8,693 0 0 0 0 0 49,940 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 50 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 20,460 0 534 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 450 0 0 0 0 2,500 0 0 0 0 0 200,000 1,134,341 1,950,531 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,144 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 273 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 50 0 0 0 0 0 450 2,500 0 3,284,872 0 0 50 0 0 0 0 41 93 9,261 221,318 8,693 377,602 638 3 1,898 355,825 0 69,491 679 2,013 13,659 577,143 3,293,565 447,093 0 0 0 378,748 70,537 449,285 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 2.2 2.5 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.6 4.1 4.2 Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services Fire-protection services Law courts Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting 307 345 314 347 314 314 204 218 301 311 371 314 301 314 301 307 371 305 308 312 329 Ministry of Industry Ministry of Defence Ministry of Home Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Home Ministry of Home Courts Council of Justice Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security Ministry of Home Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Home Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Industry Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security Ministry of Finance Ministry of Energy Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY ECONOMIC AFFAIRS 03 04 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 16,691 0 53,250 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 2,150 67,341 700 346 52,325 5 8,900 28 2,234 42 2 5,593 5,060 5,388 580,563 14,285 2,072 0 3,611 24,832 3,784 3,548 443,545 1,814 378 350,985 149 45,032 506 9,386 5,081 128 19,103 17,436 27,206 1,514,642 23,711 7,863 50,000 121,005 328,214 124,577 1,398 376,204 1,114 32 298,660 144 36,132 478 7,152 5,039 126 13,510 12,376 21,818 934,079 9,426 5,684 50,000 3,583 145,631 82,509 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 55,766 11,487 5,837 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 107 0 1,727 135,159 9,425 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 55,015 1,466 17,273 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,303 9,639 5,749 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 91,090 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 107 146,311 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 91,090 1,114 32 298,660 144 48,927 13,510 34,194 949,189 281,723 700 346 52,325 5 11,206 5,593 10,448 596,920 32,227 1,814 378 350,985 149 60,133 19,103 44,642 1,546,216 641,796 0 289,218 0 147,388 0 505,696 395,435 1,444,258 79,577 2,043,825 475,012 4,483,635 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 5.1 5.2 Fuel and energy Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport Communication Other industries R Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. Waste management Waste water management 501 307 308 501 307 337 337 347 365 501 358 501 307 325 501 308 301 305 365 501 365 501 308 MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Communications and Information Technology MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Energy Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Energy ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 05 36,223 0 0 0 0 336 0 90 0 9,720 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 0 1,245 20,978 334,284 287 45,105 771,406 4,195 55,245 94,800 12,988 2,400 30,072 7,375 30,400 0 52 846 0 3,000 0 0 0 18,000 1,428 259,362 573,550 1,225 45,476 960,963 10,336 56,631 94,800 53,891 2,400 41,477 12,196 98,700 5,471 974 7,743 66,000 3,000 150 40,423 60,974 0 183 2,853 0 938 371 75,893 1,274 1,386 0 40,903 0 11,405 4,321 0 0 922 6,897 66,000 0 0 0 0 18,000 0 24 228,186 0 0 113,271 4,825 0 0 0 0 0 0 68,300 0 0 0 0 0 0 40,223 60,787 0 0 35 0 0 0 393 42 0 0 0 0 0 500 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 187 0 0 199,249 11,080 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5,135 0 0 0 0 60 200 0 0 0 36,223 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 336 0 0 0 0 90 0 0 Recurrent Total 228,210 0 118,096 0 68,300 0 0 40,223 64,953 35 0 435 0 500 0 0 0 249 228,210 0 118,096 0 68,300 0 0 40,223 64,953 3,036 1,309 78,553 40,903 15,726 0 73,819 0 0 356,507 45,392 925,646 15,388 67,847 0 3,898 0 0 834,340 46,701 1,122,730 56,291 152,373 5,471 77,717 40,573 65,202 80,245 10,669 114,578 2,896 1,646 219,754 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 5.5 5.6 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.6 7.1 7.2 R Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. Housing development Community development Water supply Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services 313 329 501 308 313 329 347 350 358 347 501 308 312 340 347 365 308 313 365 501 365 370 Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Energy Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Education Ministry of Communications and Information Technology Ministry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Energy Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration Ministry of Energy Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration Ministry of Health and Population HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES HEALTH 06 07 130 9,500 0 0 3,169 0 0 0 3,169 0 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 0 0 0 359 0 0 0 1,207 80 137,060 13,370 0 0 0 399 8,749 0 8,512 0 0 5,033 2,436 4,228 185 41,986 17,448 139 20,443 30,362 3,212 204 170,053 13,370 2,016 2,534 2,957 949 21,509 2,500 174,327 210 23,500 5,435 4,822 0 0 0 767 0 0 0 2,005 124 18,551 0 0 2,534 2,957 550 11,557 0 710 0 0 402 2,386 4,166 0 0 0 0 7,532 1,870 0 0 1,664 0 1,945 0 0 0 980 2,500 28,748 0 12,500 0 0 62 0 0 0 0 855 9,565 0 0 12,778 0 71 0 0 0 223 0 2,132 0 0 0 0 0 55 41,986 12,666 1 7,678 17,599 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 131,260 6 11,000 0 0 0 130 0 3,656 138 4,378 1,328 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,965 204 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 9,402 1,664 2,925 43,748 0 0 0 0 10,420 12,778 294 2,132 0 0 0 0 9,402 1,664 2,925 43,748 0 0 0 0 2,896 18,551 17,598 710 402 2,386 36,683 0 1,646 150,430 9,148 8,512 5,033 2,436 3,427 42,171 71,808 183,423 29,965 200,537 5,435 4,822 40,110 142,266 0 15,204 5,336 48,337 72,928 37,261 338,271 173,123 14,672 419,360 431,207 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 7.3 7.4 7.5 8.1 8.2 8.3 8.5 9.1 9.5 9.6 9.7 9.8 Hospital services Public health services R Health Recreational and sporting services Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services R Recreation, culture and religion Pre-primary and primary education Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education R Education Education n.e.c. 307 370 314 345 370 601 365 370 370 343 325 358 325 350 350 350 350 350 Ministry of Industry Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Home Ministry of Defence Ministry of Health and Population MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Communications and Information Technology Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION EDUCATION 08 09 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 0 3,427 1,389 500 1,238 0 0 255 5,427 22,378 4,586 126 15 7 150 1,318 0 0 1,595 38,515 8,115 7,537 67,425 70,000 5,336 149,574 78,288 35,802 21,636 2,363 675 400 100,145 335,793 153 25,661 1,595 35,088 6,726 7,037 66,187 70,000 0 76,391 72,861 13,424 17,050 2,237 660 393 99,995 333,075 153 25,661 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 72,928 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 620 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5,336 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 780 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 72,928 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 620 0 0 0 5,336 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 780 0 0 0 72,928 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 620 0 0 149,950 76,391 72,861 13,424 17,050 2,237 660 393 99,995 333,075 153 25,661 3,127 255 5,427 22,378 4,586 126 15 7 150 1,318 0 0 153,077 154,910 78,288 35,802 21,636 2,363 675 400 100,145 335,793 153 25,661 0 0 0 780 0 620 33,371 459,277 27,105 1,475 60,476 462,152 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 10.4 10.5 10.7 10.8 10.9 Family and children Unemployment Social exclusion n.e.c. R Social protection Social protection n.e.c. 370 371 365 312 371 314 340 Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security Ministry of Home Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare SOCIAL PROTECTION 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 67,070 Highly Relevant Relevant Description Total 0 0 2 0 0 215 125 2,199 31,000 411,865 6,373 337 354 6,441 2,199 31,000 411,863 6,373 337 139 6,316 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,199 31,000 411,863 6,710 6,455 0 0 2 0 340 2,199 31,000 411,865 6,710 6,795 0 0 0 458,227 342 458,569 512,975 3,488,270 801,752 4,899,135 3,382,415 13,151,617 Neutral Capital and Financing 580,045 Grant Total 4,290,022 8,281,550 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Description Amount Code Percent 1 2 3 Hilghly Relevent Relevent Neutral 580045 4290022 8281550 4.41 32.62 62.97 Multilateral Agencies 1,835,010 Asian Development Bank International Development Association (World Bank) Nordic Development Fund Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC ) Fund Saudi Development Fund United Nations Inrenational Fund for Agricultural Development ADB General JFPR ADBPool Fund IDA General WB Trust Fund World Bank NDF OFID SAARC Fund UN UNDP UNESCO UNFPA UNHCR UNICEF UNHABITAT UN -GEF WHO WFP UNFCCC-Adaptation Fund Board IFAD 81 650 50 272 26 6,399 1,340 40 25,232 4,420 275 46,141 6,423 823 365 89 69 605 12,515 31,637 100 5,244 3,276 1,500 920 221 4,468 165 552 1,014 2,998 1,058 993 3,153 9,000 400,093 340,439 392,877 10,308 11,621 279,561 20,741 105,812 8,600 685,869 4,520 275 865,177 9,699 108,135 920 18,908 221 365 650 50 272 26 11,949 165 1,340 661 4,772 2,998 25,194 56,869 4,520 275 51,466 9,699 2,323 920 221 365 650 50 272 26 11,949 165 1,340 661 4,772 2,998 13,573 629,000 813,711 105,812 18,908 11,621 690,664 983,011 920 18,908 221 23,248 25,194 629,000 919,523 18,908 11,621 61,664 63,488 920 221 23,248 13,573 279,561 126,553 8,600 340,439 392,877 10,308 11,621 9,000 400,093 4,146 31,737 10,020 920 221 9,197 1,058 29,927 53,387 1,128 12,515 81 8,777 1,625,528 209,482 414,714 801,721 409,093 4,146 53,153 143,325 8,858 Cash Reimb. Direct Kind Total Total Grant Loan Foreign Grant and Loan Summary Annex 11 Reimb. Direct Direct Total Donor Agencies Fiscal Year 2018/19 (Rs. in '00000') Multilateral Agencies Bilateral-Donors (Budget) 1,835,010 1,172,194 SSDP Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank China Finland Germany India Japan Korea Kuwait Development Fund Switzerland Saudi Development Fund United Kingdom United States of America SSDP Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank China General China Exim Bank Finland General Germany KFW India General India Exim Bank Japan General Japan JICA Japan -KR2 Korea Exim Bank KFAED Switzerland SDC Saudi Fund UK General 6,418 49,065 3,300 6,261 150 45,368 1,000 4,794 128,254 5,313 10,065 4,674 18,840 840 11,000 18,257 8,682 46,476 22,808 137,124 6,246 6,538 81,800 470,761 31,278 25,800 5,000 91,844 1,000 10,065 81,800 4,674 30,052 178,159 470,761 54,086 173,924 3,300 5,000 6,246 24,518 6,538 14,145 45,368 1,000 10,065 4,674 30,052 178,159 11,000 3,300 24,518 14,145 46,476 81,800 470,761 54,086 162,924 5,000 6,246 6,538 91,844 1,000 91,865 4,674 30,052 648,920 231,310 5,000 6,246 24,518 6,538 14,145 56,398 46,476 81,800 470,761 217,010 5,000 6,246 6,538 45,368 1,000 10,065 4,674 30,052 178,159 14,300 24,518 14,145 56,398 81,800 470,761 57,078 5,000 46,476 159,932 6,246 6,538 10,065 4,674 18,840 840 11,000 18,257 8,682 52,714 45,368 1,000 4,794 128,254 5,313 3,684 6,418 49,065 3,300 6,261 150 1,625,528 829,166 209,482 343,028 656,450 172,716 125,072 142,045 75,911 Cash Reimb. Direct Kind Total Total Grant Loan Reimb. Direct Direct Total Donor Agencies Bilateral-Donors (Budget) Basket Funds 1,172,194 111,233 United States of America European Union Pooled Funds Global Alliance Against Vaccination and Immunization Save the Children Donor Pool Fund-Health Heifer Project International in Nepal USAID General Milllennium Challenge Corporation,USA EU General EU NPTF Eurpoean Investment Bank GEFMATGeneral GEFMATSave The Children Gavi General Save the Children Donor Pool Fund-Health Heifer Project International in Nepal 717 10,000 429 1,298 54 3,684 16,588 2,714 50,000 501 3 255 3,700 12,697 120 75,588 41,811 6,398 50,000 717 10,000 41,811 4,630 3 13,995 120 92,230 255 6,398 50,000 717 10,000 4,630 3 13,995 120 16,642 255 41,811 75,588 56,398 52,528 4,633 13,995 120 92,230 255 41,811 75,588 56,398 10,717 4,633 13,995 120 16,642 255 41,811 75,588 3,700 12,697 120 504 255 16,588 10,717 429 1,298 54 829,166 75,588 343,028 35,645 75,588 16,517 759 16,588 1,781 3,118,437 2,530,282 588,155 Grant Total 1,071,164 1,050,025 409,093 20,663 178,984 301,958 86,550 Cash Reimb. Direct Kind Total Total Grant Loan Reimb. Direct Direct Total Donor Agencies Annex-12 S.No. Sector Performance indicators Units Upto Fiscal Year 2017/18 At the end of Fiscal Year 2018/19 Food grain production M.Ton (in thousand) 10009 10312 Vegetables M.Ton (in thousand) 4099 4200 Fish M.Ton (in thousand) 90 100 Milk M.Ton 2140 2590 Meat M.Ton 379 417 Additional irrigation facility Hector 1488887 1509187 People Embankment program K.m. 210 225 Narayani, Mahakali, Darchula, Karnali, small rivers and brook K.m. 713 725 Landslide management activities No. 51 57 Settlement/plain market conservation activities K.m. 6.02 6.72 Seedling production, procurement and distribution No. 43663000 70887280 Scientific forest management Hector 60000 150000 Estimated revenue from forest sector Rs. In ten billion 2 2.5 Timber production Cubic Feet (in 100 thousand) 30 40 Beneficiary group through community based forest management Household 2466178 2650000 District H/Q with road connection Unit 75 76 District with Blacktopped road connection Unit 71 73 Blacktopped road K.m. 13250 14230 Graveled road K.m. 7200 7400 Temporary (muddy) road K.m. 9600 9750 Periodic road maintenance K.m. 1150 1800 No of bridge construction No. 150 275 Blacktopped road K.m. 1943 2093 Rural road bridge construction Meters 484 634 Rural municipalities with road Unit 707 727 Suspension bridge Unit 7313 7813 Electricity access household Unit (in 100 thousand) 40 43 Electricity production capacity M.w. 1045 1805 Transmission line construction (more than 66 kV ) K.m. 3496 4257 Expansion of 33 kV distribution line K.m. 600 1055 Expansion of 11 kV distribution line K.m. 1200 2100 Electricity access population Percentage 69 78 Electricity Consumption /per head K.w/ hour 164 170 Electricity leakage Percentage 20.9 18.9 Installation of domestic solar energy No. 859976 914976 3 Irrigation/River training 4 Forest Targeted Performance Indicators of Fiscal Year 2018/19 Budget 1 Agriculture 2 Livestock 7 Energy 5 Road 6 Rural roads and bridges S.No. Sector Performance indicators Units Upto Fiscal Year 2017/18 At the end of Fiscal Year 2018/19 Electricity generation from micro and small hydropower M.w. 30.7 33.7 Construction of bio-gas plant for household use No. 438868 463868 Improved stove No. 1303980 1425980 Tele density Percentage 135 140 Density of Internet use Percentage 55 60 Access to National Radio Percentage 87 90 Basic PSTN telephone users No. (in 100 thousand) 9.5 10 Mobile phone users No.(in 100 thousand) 295 300 Internet users No. (in 100 thousand) 140 155 Online tracking system in postal services Districts 60 75 Broadband Access density Population percentage 40 50 Digital Television access density Household percentage 30 50 At least one IT friendly government school to be made in each province Province/No. 0 7 Government service through online s ystem Offices 10 15 Tele density Percentage 130 140 Density of Internet users Percentage 45.67 60 Online tracking system in postal services for post offices with counter automation Districts 70 75 Easy Enrollment rate in pre-primary education Percentage 84.1 86 Class one students enrollment rate with experience of child development Percentage 66.3 68.5 Net enrollment rate a. Primary level (grade 1-5) Percentage 97.2 97.5 b. Primary level (grade 1-8 ) Percentage 92.3 94 c. Secondary level (grade 9-12) Percentage 43.9 45 Retention rate a. Upto Grade 8 Percentage 77.4 86 b. Upto Grade 10 Percentage 47.1 50 School dropout ratio a. Primary level (grade 1-5) Percentage 3 2.5 b.Primary level (grade 6-8) Percentage 3.8 3.5 c. Secondary level (grade 9-10) Percentage 4.2 3.6 Gender equity ratio (net enrollment rate to school education) a. Primary grade (class 1-8) Ratio 0.99 1 b. Secondary grade (class 9-12) Ratio 0.98 1 Literacy rate (above 6 years) Percentage 78 85 Literacy rate (above 15 years) Percentage 57 70 Literacy rate (15-24 years) Percentage 90 92 8 Alternative Energy 9 Information and Communication Technology 10 Education S.No. Sector Performance indicators Units Upto Fiscal Year 2017/18 At the end of Fiscal Year 2018/19 Community school with computer facility Percentage 8366 9366 Construction of new classroom Percentage 93845 98845 Easy enrollment rate in higher education Percentage 15.24 17.5 Commencement of E-village Percentage 45 60 Bio-diversity research Percentage 15 25 Skill development training (short term) Trainee 341600 418550 Technical education training Trainee 280795 334075 Quality assurance and accredited Campus No. 30 50 Toilet construction with wash facility No. 15526 17080 Obstetrics service from health institution Percentage 57.4 60 Modern contraceptives using rate in family planning Percentage 43 47 Pregnancy test up to four times Percentage 58.8 60 Receiving Obstetrics services from health workers Percentage 58 60 Child mortality rate Per thousand 39 34 New born Child mortality rate Per thousand 21 20 Patients having free cardiac treatment No. 2850 3965 Availability of free medicines Type 70 70 Population with access to basic drinking wate r Percentage 90 92 Population with access to basic sanitation Percentage 97 100 Population consuming urban facilities Percentage 55 60 Janata Aawas : building construction No. 26370 37000 Tourist arrivals No. (in 100 thousand) 10 12 Tourist stay Day 12.6 14 Per tourist per day expenditure US $ 54 58 Additional employment generation in tourism No. 116000 133400 GDP to tourism sector contribution Percentage 2.05 3 No. of airports running throughout the year No. 29 32 Arrival of international airlines No. 29 30 Senior citizen allowance No. 1237606 1280284 Single women and widow No. 674438 673243 Absolute and partially handicapped No. 104666 104503 Endangered tribe No. 24897 24897 Child protection grant No. 510885 515084 Expansion of micro enterprises develo pment program Districts 75 75 Construction of access road for cement industry No. 29 30 Micro entrepreneur generation No. (in thousand) 21 23 Employment generation from industries No. (in thousand) 174 181 Food transportation to remote district M.ton 16498 15239 11 Health 12 Drinking water and Sanitation 15 Social Security 16 Industry 13 Urban Development 14 Tourism S.No. Sector Performance indicators Units Upto Fiscal Year 2017/18 At the end of Fiscal Year 2018/19 Food storage in national food security store M.ton 25000 25000 Food storage in SAARC Food Security Bank M.ton 8000 8000 Transportation of Iodized salt in 22 remote districts M.ton 8035 6058.4 Export growth Rs. (In Arab) 112 140 Export-import ratio Ratio 110 19.3 Increase in no. of cooperative members Nos. (in Lakhs) 64.8 67.5 Increase in gross saving of cooperatives Rs. (In ten billion) 323 350 Increase in investment of cooperatives Rs. (In ten billion) 300 329 Skilled manpower in cooperatives sector No. (in thousand) 174 197 Direct employment through cooperatives No. (in thousand) 62 65 19 Co-operative 17 Supply 18 Commerce