Budget Speech of Fiscal Year 2014/15 Government of Nepal Ministry of Finance 13 July 2014 Unofficial Translation Budget Speech of Fiscal Year 2014/15 Delivered to Legislature-Parliament of the Constituent Assembly by Honorable Finance Minister Dr. Ram Sharan Mahat Sunday 13 July 2014 Government of Nepal Ministry of Finance 2014 www.mof.gov.np 1 Right Honorable Speaker, 1. I am standing before this august House to presen t the budget of Fiscal Year 2014/15 in my capacity as the Finance Minister of elected gover nment formed after the election of second Constituent Assembly. 2. While formulating this budget, I have been guide d by the directive principles of the Interim Constitution of Nepal, approach paper of the current 13th Plan, common minimum program of the current government and sugge stions received from Honorable Members of the Parliament during the pre-budget consultations at Legislature-Parliament. In addition, I have also given due consideration to the suggestions provided by Economic Policy Advisory Committee. 3. I have focused this budget towards achieving eco nomic growth, poverty reduction, employment generation and creating foundations for overall socio-economic development. The budget is also poised to graduate Nepal from a Least Developed Country status as defined by the UN. While formulat ing the budget, I have given priority to those programs which directly benefit the people and at the same time deliver results through optimum utilization of available resources within the country. 4. I have already presented before this august Hous e, the Economic Survey of Fiscal Year 2013/14 containing analysis of the macroeconomic si tuation of the country and ministry/entity-wise expenditure status report as w ell as the Public Enterprises Performance Report of the FY 2012/13. Economic Indicators 5. An economic growth of 5.2 percent is expected in the FY 2013/14, the highest in the last six years. Before this, 5.8 percent growth was achi eved in the FY 2007/08. The inflation which is targeted to be kept at 8.5 percent in the current Fiscal Year is expected to remain at 9 percent. 6. Revised total expenditure of the current Fiscal Y ear is estimated to be Rs. 449.85 billion against the allocation of Rs. 517.24 billion. Of the total expenditure, current expenditure is estimated to be Rs 316.64 billion, capital expendi ture Rs. 63.87 billion, and financing Rs. 69.34 billion. 7. The targeted revenue collection for the current Fi scal Year is Rs. 354.50 billion which is expected to be achieved. On foreign aid, according to the revised estimate, Rs. 47.31 billion of grant and Rs. 23.69 of loan will be mobilized. 8. As of first ten months of the current Fiscal Year , a foreign exchange reserve of Rs. 653.00 billion has been registered. A balance of payment surplus of Rs.115.00 billion has been registered during the same period. Although foreign trade deficit has increased to Rs. 505.00 billion, current account surplus of Rs. 78.03 billion has been recorded due to increase in the receipt of service income, net income, grant, and remittance income. 2 Honorable Speaker, 9. Despite protracted political conflict and instab ility, we have been able to achieve significant progress in several fronts due to polic y and programs initiated in the beginning of last two decades. The poverty level whi ch was at 49 percent during the beginning of the 8 th Plan period has now been reduced to 23.8 percent. Si milarly, improvements in human development indicators, infra structure development, expansion of transport networks, widespread communication, qual ity and quantity improvements in social services, private sector's strong presence, e xpansion of cooperatives and self initiated developments at local levels are the impressive achievements of the same period. 10. The revenue which is the main source of public e xpenditure has increased approximately by 20 percent annually. As a result, some big projec ts of national importance have been initiated and investment has been increased in soci al services and security sector by the domestic resource. Domestic borrowing and budget de ficit have been kept at desired level. 11. In the meantime, some positive trends have emerg ed in the economy after the formation of the present government: • Economic growth is registering highest after 6 years. • The investment climate has improved and confidence h as built up among investors. NEPSE index which was at 803 points during the form ation of the present government has now reached above1000 points. Daily transaction of share amount has also increased significantly. • The decision on issuance of local currency bond by i nternational financial institutions for the development of infrastructure and recent decisions of the Investment Board has paved the way for the implementation of mega projects. • International Community has increased its assistanc es. While European Investment Bank has entered as an important development partne r of the country, the World Bank and European Union have significantly scaled up their assistance. • The effectiveness of capital expenditure has increased. Honorable Speaker, 12. I had mentioned in this august House that chall enges are still remaining in the Nepalese economy despite several positive achievements durin g the presentation of the priorities and principles of Appropriation Bill. The economy cou ld not become dynamic as expected despite the macroeconomic indicators being positive. Economic and social transformation will be merely imaginative in the ab sence of economic dynamism. In regard to make the economy dynamic, I present the confronting challenges as follows: 3 Challenges 13. For a decade, the average growth rate has remain ed at 4.1 percent, though the target used to be fixed at 5 to 6 percent each year. To transfor m Nepal into the status of middle income country in next 8 years, it is challenging to achieve a growth rate of over 8 percent annually in the coming eight years. 14. The agricultural sector that contributes one-thi rd to country’s Gross Domestic Product could not be modernized and commercialized yet. The industrial sector, that was expanded as the result of the reforms carried out a fter the first People's Movement, had contributed up to 9 percent in GDP in the FY 2000/01, which is now limited to 6 percent. Because of this, export has become stagnant and the country is becoming more importoriented. Now the export-import ratio has gone down to 13 percent though export had borne almost half of the import in the FY 2000/01. I n the current Fiscal Year, the trade deficit is estimated to be Rs 600 billion. 15. The share of recurrent expenditure in total gove rnment expenditure has been increasing. In last two years, the average share of the recurren t expenditure in total expenditure was 70 percent, while the share of capital expenditure was only 17 percent. Under the recurrent expenditure the share of salary, allowance , pension of the civil servants and other social security allowances has been increasing. 16. To reach to the level of developing country status in t he next 8 years, the country needs to invest minimum 30 percent of GDP in fixed capital f ormation. However, the average investment of past 3 years has been only 22 percent . To bridge this gap of 8 percentage point in fixed capital formation, additional Rs. 16 0.00 billion should be invested in the coming Fiscal Year alone. Even if the government decid es to invest only 30 percent of this, additional Rs. 50.00 billion is required to be i nvested from the public sector. Private investment too has not been in a sizeable amount. Ex cessive liquidity in commercial banks and size of capital oriented fund in organized institutions has been rising due to the slackness in investment. 17. Productivity and returns to capital is low due to the low capital investment together with structural and institutional problems. Ratio of marg inal productivity of capital is close to 5 due to inadequate infrastructure, insufficient ene rgy, and low quality of construction work, low technical capacity as well as policy, legal, and procedural hurdles. 18. Majority of Public enterprises established to pr oduce and distribute goods and services to the public are problematic. Only 19 out of 37 public enterprises under operation are in net profit. Accumulated loss and unfunded liability of those enterprises is escalating. One after another public enterprises are on the verge of closure or in a state of huge loss. 19. Despite sizable increase in access and quantity of social services like education, health, drinking water and sanitation, the quality could no t increase as expected. Education sector has not been employment and business oriente d. On the one hand, every year 4 thousands of youth are going abroad due to the lack of employment opportunities, on the other hand, there is a lack of adequate labor force in agricultural and industrial sector within the country. 20. Meager development outcomes achieved in infrastr ucture sector are not enough for rapid economic development. Weak infrastructure and limit ed access to market for local products have substantially increased the cost of g oods and service delivery. Ongoing projects are suffering from local impediments, inclu ding land acquisition issues. Construction works also lack institutional capacity and technical audit has not been carried out. 21. Energy crisis is the biggest obstacle to developm ent. Despite enormous opportunities available in hydropower sector, the investment is le ss than expected. Lack of transmission line has adversely affected the construction work of some of the hydropower projects. The management has not been effective as Nepal Electricity Authority holds sole authority for production, transmission and distribution. 22. The rapid urbanization has not been supported by the m inimum infrastructure. Because of the scattered settlement in Hills and Mountains, th e cost of infrastructure construction and service delivery has increased and some of the settlements are at risk. 23. The administrative mechanism, which is supposed t o provide cost effective high quality services to the public, is yet to be efficient, res ult-oriented, and investment and development friendly. The administrative mechanism is directly affected by political instability. Some of the acts, rules and policies have become the obstacles in development process and service delivery rather than facilitators. Honorable Speaker, 24. I have prepared the budget of FY 2014/15 amidst t hese challenges. The main objectives of the budget are: to drive the country towards hig h economic growth trajectory, to emancipate from vicious circle of poverty, and to build social and physical foundation for long-term development. As a result of the fulfillme nt of these inter-dependent objectives, the country can move towards translating our dream of prosperity with social justice into reality. 25. Economic growth in itself is not enough. Rather, i mportant is the economic and employment opportunities created by growth. The growt h-induced increment in revenue and treasury can be utilized for economic developme nt, social justice and social security programs. Moreover, public investment can be increased for the economic upliftment and prosperity of historically poor, discriminated and marginalized communities. Sufficient infrastructure development is the pre-requisite whi le qualified human resource, growth in productivity, peace, good-governance and investment f riendly environment are binding conditions for economic growth. For this, effective role from all quarters is essential. 5 26. It is not possible, for sure, to address all th e challenges mentioned above and achieve the stipulated goals through a single budget. However, I have proposed this budget in an effort to address the current challenges learning f rom success and failure of the past, protecting strengths, and correcting weaknesses. Nep alese people are well known for their courage and talents all over the world. We ha ve capacity to tackle even the adverse situation in our own way. Taking these positive not es into accounts, I have proposed the policies and programs for the coming Fiscal Year bel ieving that the rapid economic prosperity of the nation is possible through collective efforts. Peace and Constitution 27. The main job of the present government is to fac ilitate the constitution making process. I have allocated necessary resources for this. The rem aining tasks of peace process will be completed as soon as possible. I have allocated nece ssary budget to provide relief to the conflict affected people, who are yet to receive such support. 28. I have allocated Rs. 1.59 billion for the recons truction and rehabilitation of damaged infrastructures and for special program for the conflict affected areas. 29. I have allocated sufficient budget for local elec tion in the coming Fiscal Year. 30. I have allocated necessary budget for the const ruction of parliament building, security and residential facilities for the women parliament arians, in order to bring effectiveness in the process of constitution writing and legislat ive business. I have allocated Rs. 1.22 billion for Legislature-Parliament. 31. The government will provide necessary support fo r the implementation of third strategic plan of judiciary reform. Preliminary works will be initiated for construction of the Supreme Court building. I have allocated Rs. 3.49 billion for the judiciary. 32. I have allocated necessary budget for instituti onal strengthening and capacity building of Constitutional Bodies. 33. I have provisioned relief fund for the conflict affected and martyrs’ families who had incurred and made loss from government owned banks. I have allocated funds for the waiver of principal, interests, fees and penalties to the loanee-turned-martyrs who had borrowed upto Rs. one million. I have proposed waive r of interest, fees and penalties upon payment of the principal amount. Likewise, I hav e proposed waiver for remaining interest, fees and penalties and capitalized intere st for those who have borrowed upto Rs. one million and had started business but whose busi ness was closed due to damage caused by conflict or the borrower had died, provid ed they pay remaining principal amount and 25 percent of interest charge due. This provision will be applicable only to those borrowers who invested before mid-April 2007 and exceeded the due date of repayment. 6 34. I have allocated budget for disaster management , rehabilitation of natural disaster and rehabilitation of drug addicts and rehabilitation and reconstruction of earthquake victims. 35. As internal security is crucial factor for sust ainable peace, security agencies will be strengthened and modernized. Internal security polic y will be implemented effectively. Criminal investigation will be based on electronic technology by installing Close Circuit Television System in sensitive areas of Kathmandu Vall ey and other cities in order to make urban security system more credible and reliable. 36. I have allocated Rs. 37.8 billion under the Minis try of Home Affairs for maintaining law and order. Series of Economic Reform 37. It is essential to develop the country as an att ractive investment destination to achieve high, sustainable and wide economic growth. Various reform measures will be carried out in the coming Fiscal Year in order to increase domes tic and external investment and facilitation. Additional reforms and revisions will be carried out by evaluating the practices and experiences of policies, regulations and laws regarding industry, trade, energy, banking and financial sector started back in 1990's decade. The 14 th Periodic Plan with a road map of transforming the country into de veloping country status within coming eight years and a long term development vision 2030 will be formulated. 38. Laws regarding property recording will be formul ated as soon as possible to keep the formal record of personal property and its proper v aluation as demanded by business community. 39. Company Act, Competition Promotion and Market Protecti on Act and Insolvency Act will be amended in order to simplify the processes of company establishment, renewal and liquidation. The provisions of existing Debt and Guarantee Act will be amended in order to attract foreign investment in mega project s and viable sectors, where the domestic investment is insufficient. 40. New laws regarding industrial entrepreneurship a nd foreign investment and technology transfer will be formulated. Foreign Investment Policy and Industrial Intellectual Property Policy will be formulated. Bill regarding Spe cial Economic Zone will be tabled in Parliament. Procedures regarding the establishment of large industries under foreign investment will be simplified. Legal provisions to r eceive online payment of income by exporting goods via software and courier from Nepal will be made. New Labor Act will be formulated so as to make it useful and simple fo r both employee and employer. Necessary policy and legal, structural and procedura l arrangements will be made for resumption of sick industries. 41. Commercial Policy and Nepal Integrated Trade Strate gies 2010 will be reviewed to enhance the production and export of the goods that have comparative and competitive advantage. In line with the dynamic and innovative industrial process emerging in the 21 st 7 century, clear strategies will be adopted to link Ne palese economy to regional as well as global value chain. New policy will be adopted to support the initiation of the knowledge based service and manufacturing industries. 42. A start up fund will be established to support the innovative small and medium scale entrepreneurs lacking capital and to support invent or and promote innovation by providing startup capital. Government of Nepal will contribute Rs. 500 million as seed money to this fund and private sector and non-resid ent Nepalese will be invited to contribute to this fund. 43. I have provisioned to exempt income tax for 5 y ears to the manufacturing industries established with more than Rs. 1 billion capital inv estment and to the industries established with more than Rs. 2 billion capital in vestment in tourism sector and aviation company from its commercial transaction. They will further get 50 percent income tax exemption for subsequent three years. 44. Electricity Act and Regulation will be amended to eliminate policy level as well as legal barriers in energy sector. Electricity Regulation Commission Law will be formulated. 45. Laws related to contract farming will be enacted to promote commercial farming. Public go-down law will be formulated to enhance the stora ge of the agricultural product and support price stabilization. Land use act will be fo rmulated to implement the land use policy. Legal provision will be setup to ensure the s mooth supply of forest product and to maintain the balance between its demand and supply. 46. Carteling and syndicate practices prevailing in transportation and other sectors will be strictly controlled. Registration of institutions i nvolved in the operation of syndicate practices will be cancelled and the promoters of such institutions will be black listed. 47. Administrative procedures will be simplified by introducing the information technology. Prevailing practice of submitting the same set of do cuments in different offices will be ended to deliver the hassle free service to the people. 48. Budget Management and Financial Accountability law w ill be formulated in order to make budget presentation, appropriation and impleme ntation, responsible and accountable. 49. Amendments will be made in the Public Procurement Act 2007 and Rules 2007 to simplify public procurement procedures and sort out the bottlenecks faced in the bidding process. Arrangements will be made for the construc tion entrepreneurs to provide minimum 5 year's guarantee of quality of the comple ted construction work. In order to make the construction entrepreneurs competitive thr ough enhancing their capacity, prevailing laws will be amended so that the special qualification will not be required for the construction upto Rs. 20 million. 8 50. Integrated law will be formulated in order to ta ckle the problems of land acquisition for the public interest and maintain uniformity in valu ation. Legal action will be taken against those obstructing the public construction w ork at any pretext. Amendments will be made in the Environment Protection Act and Rules so as to expedite the task of environment impact assessment of the projects. 51. Monitoring and supervision of the projects will be made effective. In order to conduct technical audit of infrastructures completed and th ose under construction, a technical testing laboratory will be established under the Na tional Vigilance Center and make it well capacitated. Construction entrepreneurs, techni cians and other concerned will be made responsible for maintaining quality of the construction work. 52. Amendment Bills with respect to Nepal Rastra Ban k Act 2002, Bank and Financial Institutions Act 2007 and Banking Offence and Punish ment Bill 2008, will be tabled before the Legislature-Parliament in this session in order to maintain monetary and fiscal stability, and enhance institutional governance and to prevent financial crimes. Amendments will be made in the Foreign Exchange Regu lation Act and Foreign Investment Restriction Act. Timely amendment will be made in the Insurance Act. 53. In order to encourage healthy competition in the ban king and financial sector, merger and acquisition policy adopted since last few years to merge the banks and financial institutions will be continued. Likewise, insurance companies will also be encouraged to go for merger. The exemption and facilities provided earlier will be continued. 54. Legal and structural arrangements will be made f or effective supervision and regulation in the cooperatives. A separate Act will be formulat ed for effective monitoring, supervision and regulation of the micro credit inst itutions, and savings and credits cooperatives. Deposit and Credit Security Bill will be tabled in this session. 55. Non Resident Nepali Act 2007 and Non Resident Ne pali Rules 2009 will be amended in order to encourage non-resident Nepali to invest in the Nepalese capital market and provide additional investment opportunities. To manag e commodity market, relevant laws will be formulated. Energy: Illuminated Nepal Prosperous Nepal 56. Government is committed to end load shedding in the country within coming three years with the campaign "Illuminated Nepal Prosperous Nepa l". In this period, public sector funded projects -Upper Tamakoshi, Kulekhani II, Chame liya and Upper Trishuli Hydroelectric projects will be generating 560 MW and 42 private sector funded Hydro-electric projects will generate 628 MW. 57. After the completion of Upper Tamakoshi Hydroelec tric Project, surplus energy will be available for export during the rainy season and de ficit energy will be purchased from external market during the dry season. In order to end load shedding especially during the 9 dry season, the ongoing cross-border transmission lines including Dhalkebar-Mujaffarpur transmission line will be used for power trading. 58. The construction works of Tamakoshi V, MadiKhola, MaiwaKhola Hydroelectric Projects including Tanahu and Rahughat projects will be started. The construction of Kabeli Hydroelectric Project will be started in Public-Private-Partnership model. 59. Considering hydropower alone is not sufficient t o minimize the load shedding, the other probable sources of renewable energy including sola r power will be connected in the national grid. With the objective of minimizing the load shedding in Kathmandu Valley 25MW solar power plant will be installed within the coming Fiscal Year. Other solar power projects will also be encouraged. 60. Nepal Electricity Authority will purchase surplu s power from individual and firms if solar panel is installed on roof of the buildings i n Kathmandu Valley and other urban areas having a generation capacity of more than one kilowatt. The power thus transacted will be calculated through a separate Net Metering System so as to make payment based on net power consumption. 61. In order to complete the projects on time, I hav e made arrangement to provide full exemption on income tax for the first ten years and 5 0 percent exemption for additional 5 years to those producers who generate and connect e lectricity to national grid and export it within FY 2022/23. I have made an arrangement to provide a lump sum grant of Rs. 5 million per MW of electricity to those producers who generate and connect the generated electricity to national grid. I have also made pro vision of an additional 10 percent of such grant to those producers who generate and conn ect the generated electricity to national grid within FY 2017/18. 62. The national and foreign companies that establish automobiles, agriculture appliances, aluminum, cement, chemical fertilizers, information t echnology and solar technology related industries in the country will be granted El ectricity Generation License for their industrial consumption and electricity royalty on i ndustrial consumption will also be exempted. The validity period of such license will be 50 years. 63. In order to resolve the problems related to land acquisition and forest area clearance in course of construction of transmission lines, a High Powered Inter-Agency Coordination Committee will be formed in coordination of National Planning Commission. 64. The construction of 33 ongoing 132 KV and other tr ansmission line projects will be expedited with priority. I have allocated sufficient budget for the ongoing DhalkebarMujaffarpur 400 KV cross-border transmission line in cluding 132 KV Butwal-Kohalpur, Kushaha-Kattaiya and 220 KV Khimti-Dhalkebar transmiss ion lines to ensure their completion within the coming Fiscal Year. 10 65. The construction of Cross-border transmission lin es including Kaligandaki Corridor and Marsyangdi Corridor will be started with the invest ment of approximately Rs. 40 billion from the coming Fiscal Year. 66. I have allocated Rs. 830 million for the completi on of detail study of Budhigandaki (630 MW) and Nalsinghgadh (410 MW) hydropower projects. 67. Feasibility study of Upper Arun (335 MW), Sunkoshi III (500 MW), Aandhikhola (180 MW), Uttarganga (300 MW), and Dudhkoshi (300 MW) hyd ropower projects including Pancheshowar, Karnali-Chisapani, Naumureand Aandhikhol a Multipurpose Hydroelectric Projects will be completed. A detail s tudy of 5 MW hydroelectric projects in Jumla will be completed in coming Fiscal Year. 68. An attractive package will be offered in order t o attract large investors in hydropower projects. The Power Development Agreement negotiation initiated by Investment Board in relation to Upper Karnali (900 MW), Arun III (900 MW), Tamakoshi III (650 MW) and Upper Marsyangdi II (600 MW) hydropower project s will be finalized and PDA will be completed. West Seti hydropower project will be implemented soon. 69. All parts of the country wherever the transmissi on lines are reachable will have electrification by coming three years. In order to m eet this target, I have appropriated Rs 1.50 billion for the coming Fiscal Year on top of R s. 2 billion that has already been allocated for rural electrification this month. 70. Electricity tariff will be adjusted timely based on the cost of production. The Nepal Electricity Authority will be restructured into thre e different companies namely; electricity generation, transmission and distribution companies within coming Fiscal Year. The entity responsible for transmission will be developed to a competent company for the power trading. 71. Subsidy will be arranged for the site delivery of electromechanical equipment required for construction of micro-hydro projects. A capital grant will be provided on the use of solar technology for drinking water and irrigation schemes. Power generated from micro and small hydro power projects will be integrated t o mini-grids and will be linked to national grid gradually. 72. Under the programme of making every household "S moke-free Bright House”, 125,000 solar systems with a capacity of more than 50 Wp, 800,000 improved stoves, 1000 solar cookers/dryers, 200 solar irrigation pumps and 50,00 0 household bio-gas plants will be installed in the coming three years period. Provisio n of subsidy will be made for solar street lights in cities through Alternative Energy Promotion Centre. A feasibility study of electricity generation from waste will be conducted . Large industrial estates, corporate houses, housings and apartments will be encouraged to produce electricity needed for their own consumption from the waste they produce. 11 73. I have appropriated Rs. 12.62 billion for generat ion of electricity. This arrangement helps to generate an additional 28 MW hydropower and 25 M W of solar power thereby increasing the total electricity generation in the country to 833 MW. 74. I have earmarked Rs. 13.55 billion for the constr uction of transmission lines. The total transmission line capacity will reach to 2,715 circu its KM in the coming year with an addition of 75 circuits KM of transmission line in t he existing 2,640 circuit KM. Likewise, the total distribution line will reach to 4,400 KM with an addition of 200 KM of 33 KV distribution line in the next year. Modernization of Agriculture 75. Agriculture sector is the backbone and an area of co mparative advantage of the economy. Programs such as modernization, diversification, comm ercialization and marketing the agriculture sector will be conducted for the overal l development of this sector during the agriculture decade. The supply and the distribution of agricultural inputs such as irrigation, electricity, transport, fertilizer, seed, a nd agro-credit will be made effective. Special emphasis on extension services, trainings, res earch and development has been given in this budget. 76. The interest rate on loan to be provided by the c ommercial bank for modern farming, livestock and poultry farming, medicinal plants, veg etables and horticulture, dairy business, aquaculture, agro storage, cold storage, sl aughter house and meat-related business will be confined to 6 percent in order to address the problem of unemployment and youth drain from rural areas. For this, I have proposed up to 4 percent subsidy. I have allocated Rs. 1 billion for agriculture interest su bsidy. I have earmarked Rs. 870 million for program to be operated under cost sharing basis . I have allocated Rs. 1 billion for the investment through Small Farmers Development Bank to increase the meat products. 77. I have provisioned up to 50 percent subsidy in the loan interest taken in order to develop land and mechanize farming for private groups which are involved in the commercialization and mechanization of the farming by integrating 10 hectares land in mountain and 20 hectares land in Terai and up to 75 percent interest grant for the cooperatives of marginalized and landless farmers. 78. I have provisioned to levy only 1 percent customs d uty on the import of machineries such as hand tractor, power tiller, feeder machine, milki ng machine to commercialize agriculture, livestock and fish productions. Likewise , I have provisioned 50 percent customs duty exemption on the import of one transport vehicle by cattle farms. Similarly, I have provisioned complete customs duty exemption on the import of milking machine and refrigerated van used to carry meat products. 79. Breeding center will be developed in order to pr ovide hybrid species only of female calf to the farmers. I have provisioned to grant 50 perce nt of total cost of buying milking machine to the farmers who are in dairy profession with more than 20 hybrid cows. 12 80. I have provisioned 50 percent VAT exemption paid by tea industries in order to promote them. I have arranged 50 percent customs duty exempt ion on the import of transport vehicles to be used by tea production and processin g industries. I have provisioned to grant fertilizer for CTC tea industries as per the recommendation of tea producers association. 81. I have provisioned the budget for providing subs idy of 75 percent of the insurance premium paid for livestock and agricultural productions. 82. I have appropriated Rs. 5.48 billion to provide subsidy for 255 thousand metric tons of chemical fertilizer in the coming Fiscal Year. I hav e also provisioned 50 percent subsidy for the production of organic fertilizer including Vermi-compost to the farmer group cooperatives. The VDCs that are involved in organic f arming without use of pesticides and chemical fertilizers will be provided additiona l 25 percent grant on top of regular grant. 83. Agricultural research will be focused to enhance production and productivity. I have allocated Rs. 1.78 billion to strengthen the agricultural research programs. 84. In order to support the development and commerci alization of the agricultural sector, farmers will be classified into small, medium and l arge and commercial categories. Farmers’ identity card will be issued and facilities and services will be provided based on certain criteria. 85. Qualitative production and improvement of proces sing of export oriented designated agricultural crops and goods such as tea, coffee, ca rdamom, ginger, honey, red lentil , Pashmina , will be expanded. 86. I have allocated Rs. 130 million for the provisi on of 7 thousand metric tons improved seed through cost sharing mechanism by increasing s eed replacement rate to improve food security. 87. I have allocated Rs. 23.28 billion for the progra ms under the Ministry of Agriculture Development. Irrigation 88. The construction works of the irrigation projects which are under construction will be accelerated. Old irrigation systems will be made operational after repair and maintenance. For the lift irrigation in the potential area, the f armers irrigating at least 50 hectares through using renewable energy will be provided 50 percent subsidy in the interest of loan. 89. Sikta Irrigation Project, Babai Irrigation Project, Mahakali Irrigation Project and Rani Jamara Kulariya Irrigation Project and their main ca nal as well as their branch canal and 13 modernization of irrigation system will be continue d. The tunnel construction work of Bheri Babai Multipurpose Diversion Project will be initiated. 90. The detailed study of Kaligandaki-Tinau and Sunkosh i Multipurpose Diversion Project and the study of Kankai River Multipurpose Project wi ll be conducted. I have given continuity to irrigation projects with additional b udget under Seti Mahakali Irrigation Development Program and Karnali Zone Irrigation Development program. 91. Five thousand shallow tube wells and 35 deep tube wells will be installed. The construction work of 35 ongoing middle level irriga tion projects and other 30 projects will be completed. 92. Due to the lack of necessary repair and mainten ance, the large irrigation projects which could not be operated in full capacity will be reha bilitated and irrigation facility will be made available in additional 50 thousand hectares l and in the coming two years. I have allocated Rs. 400 million for accelerating the maint enance and rehabilitation of Nepal Gandak West Canal, Chandra Canal, Koshi Pump, Koshi di stribution, Kamala, Narayani, Narayani Lift and Banganga irrigation system. 93. In the surface irrigation, 4,500 hectares additi onal surface irrigation facility will be provided. For this purpose, I have allocated a budget of Rs. 12 billion. In the upland area where surface and groundwater irrigation is not fea sible, irrigation facility will be provided in additional 600 hectares based on new te chnology of irrigation system. For this purpose, I have allocated a budget of Rs. 250 million. 94. Under the people's embankment program, 25 kilom eter embankment will be constructed and 7 kilometer embankment will be improved in the 14 large rivers of Terai. I have allocated budget for the control of erosion of Maha kali river of Darchula, Karnali and Babai River, and reconstruction of damage caused by such erosion. 95. I have allocated necessary budget under save th e risk prone district headquarter programs for the safety of Bhadrapur, Dunai, Chainpur, Diktel and Beni. I have also allocated budget for the safety of Armala, Kaski and Susta, Nawalparasi. 96. I have allocated a total of Rs.18.10 billion for t he small and community irrigation projects to be implemented through the local bodies in the coming Fiscal Year. Forest and Soil-Conservation 97. Program "One House One Tree, One Village One Forest , One City Multi Park" will be carried out as National Campaign by declaring the d ecade 2014-2023 as a Decade of Forest for making this sector as a basis of prosperi ty by ensuring forest area of at least 40 percent of total land of the country. Forest Con servation Volunteers will be trained to involve the youths in this task. 14 98. Special emphasis will be given for protection, p roduction and management of precious herbs. Cold storage and processing center will be se t up, in partnership with government, cooperatives and private sector, to promote export of extracted elements of those plants and herbs, by conducting additional research, that a re likely to be exported in raw and processed form. 99. Procedures of use and transportation of private forest products will be simplified. I have provisioned to support those individuals and groups who are interested in plantation of trees in private land or integrating fragmented pr ivate land as well. I have also provisioned subsidy to develop private and agricult ural forest as well as the operation of Nursery. Land will be made available to those indust rial establishments which are yet to plant as per the agreement. 100. Existing policy and legal provision will be rev iewed and forest based industries will be classified as Timber Industry, Non-Timber Industry a nd Economic-Forest Industry in order to ease and ensure the availability of raw materials. 101. I have allocated Rs 900 million to Rastrapati C huriya-Tarai Madhesh Conservation Development Committee, constituted recently to cons erve Churiya Tarai Madesh region. A Master plan based on River Basin System, will be f ormulated and implemented for the conservation of Churiya region in coming year. 102. I have allocated Rs 9.78 billion for the developm ent of forest. Land Reform 103. Sustainable use of land and land recourses poli cy will be adopted based on the geostructure, capacity and its appropriateness. Program will be implemented to control the excessive use of land and land resources in a coord inated manner. The role and responsibilities of different government agencies w ill be defined to conserve the land owned by government, public and Guthi. Public land will not be provided for private use or any other purpose without specific plan and anal ysis of costs and benefits by local bodies. 104. Land management will be improved by applying mo dern technology and increasing correctness of the land mapping. Geo information system will be developed and extended based on information technology to enhance the quality of land management. 105. Periodic action plan will be developed and imple mented through the Landless Problem Solving Commission to address the problem of squatte rs, landless and unplanned settlement. Rehabilitation program of freed kamaiya and haliya family will be continued. Cooperatives 15 106. In the loan investment of cooperatives which are en gaged in saving and loan transactions, provisioning of up to 5 percent of bad debts risk f und will be made mandatory similar to banks and financial institutions approved by Nepal Rastra Bank. 107. For the security of the loan flow by cooperative ins titutions, cooperative saving and credit security fund will be established. To increase the ef fectiveness of cooperatives dealing with saving and credit transactions, I have allocat ed Rs. 40 million to establish the cooperative and poverty monitoring information system. 108. I have allocated Rs. 50 million for capital subs idy for increasing employment through the development of cooperatives as well as for seed cap ital subsidy and construction of cold storage. 16 Infrastructure Development 109. Physical infrastructures will be developed so as t o increase accessibility, facilitate service delivery and enhance cost effectiveness. At least o ne road will be constructed on multiyear contract basis in each electoral constituency where there is no year-round transportation. Dolpa and Humla will be connected to motorable roads within the coming two years. 110. Detail Project Report of Kathmandu-Tarai fast tra ck will be prepared within next six months and construction work will be started in thi s Fiscal Year. The Government will ensure minimum number of vehicles, including other facilities for domestic or foreign investors willing to invest in building and operati on of this project. I have allocated Rs. 250 million for pre-construction works. 111. The track opening for total of 1,776 kilometers of Mid-Hill Highway will be completed within coming Fiscal Year. Out of this, 66 kilometers will be black-topped, 20 kilometers will be graveled and 20 bridges will be constructed within coming Fiscal Year. I have allocated Rs. 2 billion for this project. 112. The track opening of remaining 20 kilometers of Kaligandaki corridors of North-South highway will be completed. Track will be opened for 30 kilometers of Limi-LapchaSimikot segment and 35 kilometers of Hilsa-Simikot s egment of Karnali corridors. Similarly, 60 kilometers track opening and five bridg es construction work of Koshi corridors will be completed. I have allocated Rs 1.1 8 billion for Koshi, Kaligandaki, Karnali, Seti, Mahakali and Veri corridors of this highway. 113. Black topping of 40 kilometers of Postal road wi ll be completed. The construction of ongoing 10 bridges under this highway will be compl eted. I have allocated Rs. 2 billion for this project. 114. Total of 70 kilometers of different 11 roads, in cluding Lamosanghu-Tamakoshi-Jiri road, Sahid Marga (Ghorahi-Holeri segment), Lumbini Buddhi st Circuit, Saphebagar-Martadi road, Bardaghat-Tribeni road, Balaju-Trishuli road, Chha hare-Bidur road, BalkhuChhaimale road, Bhaktapur-Nagarkot road and Janakpur pilgrimage road will be upgraded and black-topped in coming Fiscal Year. I ha ve allocated Rs. 2.39 billion for these projects. 115. Expansion of Kalanki-Koteshwar segment of Kathmandu Ring Road to eight lanes will be expedited and separation of track of Kalanki-Bala ju-Koteshwar segment will be completed in coming Fiscal Year. I have allocated Rs. 1.19 billion for these projects. 116. Additional 41 kilometers road will be extended within Kathmandu Valley in coming Fiscal Year. Construction of Dhobikhola Corridor Roa d will be completed. I have allocated Rs. 1.80 billion for extension, improvement and maintenance of the roads of Kathmandu Valley. 17 117. I have allocated Rs. 1 billion for the expansion o f commercial roadsRani-Itahari-Dharan road, Belhiya-Butwal road, Birgunj-Pathlaiya road and Jatahi-Janakpur segment to six lanes. 118. I have allocated Rs 2.40 billion for black-toppi ng of 160 kilometers of Surkhet-Jumla road and Shitalpati-Musikot road. 119. I have allocated Rs 1.15 billion for black-topp ing of 112 kilometers of ChainpurKhadbari, Harkapur-Okhaldhunga, Okhaldhunga-Salleri and Nepalgunj-Kohalpur roads. 120. Total of 48 kilometers of Nadaha-Koshi bridge-Cha tara-Rupnagar, Leguwaghat-Bhojpur, Haleshi-Diktel, Manthali-Ramechap and Mechi Bridge-B irtamod roads will be blacktopped. 121. Narayanghat-Mungling road will be upgraded and detailed feasibility study will be conducted for the improvement of Mungling-Kathmandu segment. I have allocated Rs. 1.19 billion for this purpose. 122. In coming Fiscal Year, total of 16,788 kilometer s of strategic and local roads will be maintained, including regular maintenance, routine maintenance, periodic maintenance, and rehabilitation and urgent maintenance. A separat e mechanism will be established for rehabilitation of large roads. I have allocated Rs. 4.50 billion for these activities. 123. I have allocated Rs. 1.35 billion for the constr uction of Simara-Bardibas Railways segment. Similarly, land purchase and track lining w orks for ongoing broad-gauge railways projectsJayanagar-Janakpur-Bardibas and Katahari-Budhanagar will be completed in coming Fiscal Year. I have allocated Rs. 650 million for these projects. 124. Concept of Rapid Mass Transport will be impleme nted in large and medium scale roads of Kathmandu Valley to improve the safety and qualit y of Public Transportation Service. For this, I have made provision of partial exemption s in custom duty while importing the bus with capacity of more than 40 seats. 125. In coming Fiscal Year, 125 bridges will be constr ucted in strategic and local roads. I have allocated total of Rs. 7.30 billion including Rs. 2.60 billion for strategic bridges, Rs. 3.17 billion for local bridges and Rs. 1.53 billion for suspension bridges. 126. I have allocated total Rs. 26 billion for the roads to be constructed through the central level in coming Fiscal Year. This will cover 525 kilom eters of black-topped roads, 498 kilometers of graveled roads and 227 kilometers of new track opening. Similarly, I have allocated Rs. 8.96 billion for the roads to be constructed at the local level. This will cover 50 kilometers of black-topped roads, 200 kilometers of graveled roads and 779 kilometers of dirt roads. Urban Infrastructure and Drinking Water 18 127. Government, Cooperatives and Private Housing Pr ojects will be implemented to develop safe, managed, economic and environment friendly housing system. Private sector will be attracted in urban infrastructure development as pe r the concept of Public Private Partnership. 128. Urban infrastructure development programmes wi ll be carried out in Biratnagar, Birgunj Sub-Metropolitan City and Butwal, Dharan, Janakpur a nd Nepalgunj Municipality including the development of 10 Urban Corridors with eight ongoing and two new. 129. Construction of International Conference Hall w ill be completed in Butwal, and Construction of Regional Conference Hall in Doti and Tikapur will be continued. 130. Development inside Kathmandu Valley will be car ried out further in integrated and collaborative way. Any development construction work s including Urban Road Expansion in Kathmandu Valley will be carried out by the decision of Physical Infrastructure Committee on the recommendation of Ka thmandu Valley Development Authority. 131. I have appropriated Rs. 770 million for the Bagm ati Region Physical Infrastructure and Reform, Dhobikhola Improvement and Biratnagar Ringr oad. Under Bagmati Civilization Conservation Campaign ( Bagmati Savyata Bachau Aviyan), I have allocated Rs. 270 million for the construction of dam at its source a rea including greenery area, embankment and check dam on its lower basin area. 132. Garden and Park will be constructed at least in 10 places in coming Fiscal Year with a sufficient open space purchasing the necessary land and protecting the public land and property located in Kathmandu valley. The policy, focu sing on one open space for 25 thousand population in each municipality, will be ad opted. Those municipalities which initiate this work will be provided capital grant. 133. The source of water is drying day-by-day due to climate change. I have managed to exempt all demand charge of electricity used in the pumping system for providing drinking water. 134. To provide basic level of safe and sufficient d rinking water service by 2017 to all Nepalese people as per national target, I have alloc ated Rs. 5.03 billion to carry out construction, maintenance and expansion of drinking water projects. 135. The construction work of Melamchi Project will be carried out with the objectives of providing drinking water in Kathmandu Valley by midApril 2016. I have allocated Rs. 4.61 billion for this project. 136. Priority will be given for construction of massi ve pumping system drinking water projects in Terai and various dry areas of Hilly re gion. For collection of rainwater and refilling by construction of dams, comprehensive st udy will be carried out for 19 construction of impounding reservoirs in other dry areas. Every Village Development Committee will be encouraged to construct public ponds using local resources. 137. Construction of reservoir for collection of rai nwater and surface water will be carried out in Bhaktapur district and in Godawari and Thosne Khola of Lalitpur district. 138. Construction of wastewater treatment plants wil l be started in Guheshwori and Gokarna for wastewater management and lay down of about 20 kilometers of drainpipe will be completed along the riverside corridor. I have allo cated Rs. 800 million to carry out this project. 139. I have allocated Rs. 2.15 billion to expedite la rge and medium scale drinking water projects including small town drinking water projec ts. Under rural drinking water program, about 340 projects will be completed among the total 661 projects including 378 ongoing and 289 new projects. I have allocated R s. 1.32 billion budgets for this program. Local Development 140. While respecting the voice raised by the Honor able Members of Legislature-Parliament and address the issues, I have made different arrangements in the budget for the equitable distribution of the budget, ensuring the role of rep resentatives of the people in the development of electoral constituency and to avoid excessive dependency at the center even for small projects. 141. A minimum of Rs. 50 million equivalent of phy sical infrastructure will be guaranteed in every electoral constituency under the different en tities. If some electoral constituencies are implementing infrastructure program with less t han this amount, an additional budget will be made available within coming Fiscal Year. Si milarly, from the coming Fiscal Year, I have initially provisioned Rs.10 million for the infrastructure projects selected by Honorable Members of the Legislature-Parliament in their constituencies in order to implement those programs on the basis of people's p articipation. Depending on the effectiveness of this program, the funds will be gr adually increased. I have allocated additional Rs. 500 thousand on top of Rs. 1 million being provided to all members under the constituency development program. 142. In addition, I have proposed to proportionally allocate across all the constituencies through district development committees for physica l infrastructure development under different headings. The selection of such programs u nder this scheme will be done by the Parliament Members of respective constituency until the election of District Development Committee. The implementation modality, monitoring and auditing guidelines will be developed by Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development within two months. 143. Priority will be given for the construction of suspension and other bridges to ease the mobility in the roads constructed at local levels t hroughout the year. One constituency one road bridge and one district one national program policy will be introduced. 20 144. In the coming Fiscal Year, a campaign of constructing urban gardens, thereby giving high priority to public land conservation and environment improvement in urban areas. 145. The construction of well-equipped Multipurpose I nclusive Building will be commenced to manage the offices of all the commissions, foundations and committees established for the promotion of inclusive development including Na tional Foundation for Upliftment of Aadivasi/Janajati, National Dalit Commission, National Muslim Commission, Neglected, Suppressed and Dalit Community Upliftment Development Committee, Badi Community Upliftment Committee, and Backward Community Upliftment Development Committee. 146. The distribution of social security allowance th rough banking system will be gradually expanded to all districts. 147. Priority will be given for expansion of road con nectivity to 815 VDCs which are not yet connected to road networks. For this, I have allocate d Rs. 1.2 billion. Similarly, I have allocated Rs. 2.25 billion to improve 55 thousands k ilometers of road constructed so far at local level. 148. I have allocated necessary budget for the human resource management, office building, sanitation programme and basic infrastructure for t he recently established municipalities and new municipalities to be announced by the Gover nment. I have made policy provision of constructing infrastructure for the ne w municipalities as per the town development plan. 149. The Poor with Biseshor Program which was launched for the ultra-poor will be provided with sound structure and appropriate manpower so as to implement it as nationwide poverty alleviation program. Industry and Trade 150. In order to show presence in the international market, to produce comparative and competitive goods, and to promote export, industria l development is a must. For this purpose, this budget has accorded a high priority to the development of infrastructure of industrial sector. 151. Special Economic Zone of Bhairahawa will be bro ught into operation from the coming Fiscal Year. The preparation of detail engineering des ign with the master plan and constructing of an access road in the Panchkhal Spec ial Economic Zone will be initiated. The construction of access road to establish SEZ in Jumla and infrastructure development for the SEZ in Simara of Bara will be expedited. 152. Additional industrial region in other possible ar ea in the country including in Kanchanpur and Kailai will be established. In order to establish Tinau Industrial sub-region at Motipur, a detail engineering design will be carried out. 21 153. I have given continuation for the construction of access road to mines for the 12 cement industry and for electricity sub-station and transm ission line for the 8 cement industries. An arrangement will be made for providing grant on t he basis of specified standard if the entrepreneur wants to construct access road. Nationa l and foreign investors will be encouraged for the extraction of mines including petroleum products. 154. In order to promote herbal processing business, herbal centers with access road will be established and brought into operation in Achham, Baitadi, Mugu, Bajura, and Bajhang in coming Fiscal Year with the participation of local communities. 155. In order to eliminate the compulsion going abro ad for the security printing due to unavailability of security printers, permission will be given to those private printers who can fulfill the specified standard. 156. One village one product and one district one pr oduction program will be extended. 157. To substitute the continuous import of garments and to rehabilitate the garment industry, I have made special provision to provide special co ncession in Value Added Tax. It has been made mandatory for the public entities to purc hase local products even if the prices are higher by up to15 percent in the market rate an d the compliance of this policy will be monitored. 158. I have continued the incentive for third countr y export. The Dry Port under construction at Larcha, Sindhupalchok will be completed in coming Fiscal Year. The construction of Inland Container Depot-ICD at Rasuwa will be initia ted in coming Fiscal Year. An arrangement will be made to facilitate export to Ch ina by establishing quarantine with laboratory of international standard at Barabise, Sindhupalchok. 159. In order to construct international standard ex hibition stall and to manage incoming containers with carrying goods within Kathmandu Vall ey, a preliminary work will be carried out to construct Inland Container Depot-ICD at Chobhar, Kathmandu. 160. In order to ease supply of petroleum product, c onstruction of pipeline from Raxual to Amalekhgunj will be started in the coming Fiscal Yea r. Involvement of private sector will be made for the supply and storage of petroleu m product. In order to manage and make effective regulation of transaction of petrole um product, necessary law will be formulated. Storage capacity of petroleum product in the Kathmandu Valley will be enhanced. Leakage will be controlled by installing Secure Locking System in the tanker of carrying petroleum product. 161. Price Stabilizing Fund will be established in co st sharing basis with Nepal Oil Corporation in order to adjust the fluctuation in international prices of petroleum products. For this, I have provisioned of putting Rs. 500 million from th e government. There will be a mandatory provision of mixing 10 percent ethanol to the petrol used by them for the vehicles of government transport running in Kathmand u valley within the coming Fiscal Year. 22 Environment, Science and Technology 162. National and local level climate change adapta tion program will be expanded. For this, I have allocated Rs. 930 million. 163. Necessary procedures will be prepared and take n into practice to spend the amount generated from environmental pollution control fee to the sector of environment protection. 164. The loss incurred from water and weather induced disa ster will be reduced by minimizing the adverse impact from climate change. Weather for ecasting will be made reliable. I have increased remuneration of Gauge-Readers who ar e involved in disseminating weather information. 165. National Action Plan will be prepared and gradu ally implemented for the delivery of basic services to the people through information technology. 166. Government Cloud will be set up to ensure archives of all informati on and statistics of Government of Nepal. Necessary land will be made av ailable to those foreign investors who are interested to set up data center within Nepal. 167. Policy, that could help to make public institut ions accountable, transparent and responsible to the people as well as to promote soc ial cohesion, economic progress and good governance, will be adopted through the use of information technology. Tourism and Civil Aviation 168. Nepal is potential for touristic destination. Nepal will be developed as an attractive touristic destination by familiarizing into the wor ld Atlas as an attractive, beautiful and safe destination so as to take maximum benefit from the tourism. 169. From Taplejung to Darchula, high hill rural touri stic path will be initiated with priority under the Great Himlayan Trail concept through Tourism Infrastructure Program. 170. Tribhuwan International Airport will be well eq uipped with modern facilities. The construction work of Gautam Buddha Regional Airport will be expedited. Construction work of Pokhara Airport will be started after the com pletion of land acquisition and basic infrastructures. 171. The preliminary construction work will be initia ted for the second international airport at Nijgadh, Bara and the inhabitants around the constr uction sites will be resettled elsewhere in the coming year. I have allocated Rs. 50 0 million for the completion of the works prior to the construction phase. 172. Biratnagar, Nepalgunj and Dhangadhi airports wil l be developed as well facilitated regional airports. Janakpur, Bhadrapur and Surkhet ai rports will be developed as capable of landing at night. A detail feasibility study will be carried out at Ramghat of Surkhet. A 23 feasibility study will be carried out at Chalnetar of Pyuthan and Chuhandanda of Terhathum for the construction of airport. Rajbiraj a irport will be brought under operation.I have allocated Rs. 7.08 billion for the construction and improvement of airports. 173. In order to increase national and international access of air services, 15 aircrafts for domestic flights and 7 new aircrafts for internatio nal flights will be brought under operation through Nepal Airlines Corporation, within the next five years. 174. Tourism entrepreneurs will be provided hundred p ercent income tax rebates for 10 years who construct and operate well facilitated resorts at Rara Lake and other important lake sides. Private sector will be encouraged to build mus ical water fountain at Fewa Lake in Pokhara. 175. Implementation of the Masterplan of Lumbini and Pashupati area will be expedited. Greater Janakpur Area Development Master Plan will b e developed and brought under implementation. Priority will be given for the develo pment of important religioustouristic destinations. A Master Plan of Balmiki Ashram located at Gardi of Chitwan, will be developed, which is historically, archaeologically and religiously important. 176. Tangible-intangible cultural heritages of the co untry will be explored, protected and promoted. I have arranged to maintain the properties of religious destinations in the name of the concerned institutions ending double ownersh ip and providing security to them. Trusts will be developed and brought under operation in the large and historical religious destinations. 177. Records which are counted as a valuable propert y will be managed and protected making national record center modern, technological and safe. Assistance will be provided for the construction of museums in different part of the co untry to reflect caste, language, religion and culture. 178. I have allocated a total of Rs 3.92 billion for the development of tourism infrastructure and cultural promotional programs. Information and Communication 179. To make further effective the right to informat ion of people, necessary legal and institutional framework will be arranged to set up a Public Service Broadcaster by merging government owned media namely Radio Nepal and Nepal Television. 180. I have provisioned budget to set up Communicat ion Training Academy for the development of professional journalism, to establis h revolving fund for the accidental insurance to journalist, and to establish welfare fund for conflict affected. 181. To make access to broad band internet service i n the rural part of country, district headquarter will be joined by optical fiber, on the basis of public private partnership approach, 24 in the mid hill highway of the country. Optical fibe r will be extended in BanepaBardiwas road sector, and e-service will be provided by constructing 30 Community Information Centers. 182. National Film Policy will be formulated and imple mented for holistic development of Nepali Film sector. 183. In the coming Fiscal Year, the telecasting will be commenced from Kohalpur Telecasting Center of Nepal Television. Similarly, studio will b e set up by constructing Itahari Telecasting Center Building. Telecasting will be begu n from Third Channel of Nepal Television. The provision to publish Gorkhapatra from Biratnagar will be arranged in order to make it timely, competent and customer friendly. 184. Quality of whole telecommunication service will be enhanced by introducing newly developed 3G and 4G technology in telecommunication field. Strategic partner will be sought to make Nepal Telecommunication Company Limited further competent. 185. Broadcasting service of Radio Nepal will be exp anded to all districts of the country. In memory of Tarani Prasad Koirala, founder of Radio Nepal , Tarani Prasad Koirala Commemorative Village will be set up in Biratnagar. 186. I have allocated Rs. 4.13 billion for the develo pment of information and communication sector. Education 187. Education Act will be revised in order to make school education effective, useful and accessible. 188. I have accorded high priority to the education sector in the coming Fiscal Year under the 'Education for All Program'. Moreover, general educatio n will be re-oriented gradually towards technical and vocational education. With a view to eradicate illiteracy, upcoming year will be marked as "Illiteracy Eradication Year" for the successful completion of the "Literate Nepal Initiative". I have allocated Rs. 1.39 billion for literacy program. 189. In order to make school level education more ef fective, merger provisions will be implemented focusing to the schools having few numb ers of students and established within less-than-standard distance. In the coming Fiscal Year, at least 200 schools will be merged. 190. A private-public-partnership concept will be p ut forward to operate and manage public schools. The Government will provide facilities and b enefits to the private school at par with public schools if the schools are run and mana ged in partnership by employing the existing infrastructures and resources. 25 191. In order to improve the quality of school leve l education, programs will be gradually implemented in the secondary schools with a concept of "One School: One Library and "One School: One Science Laboratory". 192. For the pursuance of higher secondary to the ma ster level education, I have provisioned monthly stipend of Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 3,000 to the studen ts belonging to the low income of Dalit, Chepang, and Raute community who have passed Sc hool Level Certificate Examination with first division from the public scho ols. I have arranged to bear all the cost by the government of the student belonging to Dom, Badi, Chamar, Musahar of the Dalit community to study graduate level in engineering and medicine. 193. Scholarship will be provided to intelligent, dis abled, conflict affected, liberated Kamlary, marginalized and Dalit students. The day meal progr am being implemented in Karnali Zone and neighboring 14 districts will be extended to the children belonging to the endangered communities like Badi, Dom, Chamar, Musahar, Chepang and Raute. 194. Special incentive will be provided to the girl student belonging to the Dalit, Muslim and backward area of Terai-Madhesh who are studying in public school. 195. Different skill developing trainings will be i mparted to the youths across the country in order to develop their productivity and entrepreneu rship for the participation in the country's development. One technical school will be established in every electoral constituency by reorienting the hitherto technical steam of school level education. Technical education will be extended in the higher s econdary schools in collaboration with private sector. The Center for Technical Educatio n and Vocational Training (CTEVT) will be changed and established as an institu tion of the certification of the technical and vocational training. 196. Higher education policy will be implemented to manage higher education. An integrated higher education act will be enacted for the qualit y enhancement and effective management of higher education. Two thousand teachers position will be added in Higher Secondary Schools. 197. A university umbrella Act will be promulgated in order to manage universities. Accessibility in the higher education will be increased by establishing open universities. I have allocated Rs.6.52 billion to provide grants thro ugh the University Grant Commission to develop university level education. 198. I have allocated Rs. 4.74 billion for the devel opment of infrastructures of educational/academic institutions. With this, 1,285 school buildings, 9 District Education Office buildings, 3,230 toilets at schools, and 13 polytechnic buildings will be constructed. 199. I have allocated Rs. 86.03 billion for the overall d evelopment of education sector. Health 26 200. A new health policy will be implemented. The in frastructure of health institutions will be developed in modern way. The concept of private publi c partnership will be brought forward for the capacity enhancement of government hospitals. The well-equipped ward will be established for head of the State, head of t he Government and VVIP and VIPs in the Bir hospital. 201. As per the local need, government will ensure fr ee distribution of the specified medicines round the clock from public hospitals and health ce nters. By the end of coming Fiscal Year, all the sub health posts will be upgraded to t he level of health posts. Hospitals and health centers will be upgraded and ICU ward will b e established in five zonal hospitals and geriatric ward in all zonal hospitals as required. 202. The positions of specialist doctors will be inc reased for the effectiveness of health services. The number of doctors in primary health c enter will be increased. In order to encourage doctors working in remote and rural areas , non-practice allowance will be provided through developing certain criteria. 203. The immunization service program will be developed, extended and improved to increase the level of citizen’s health by preventing, control ling, and eradicating diseases thereby reducing the infant, child and maternal mortality r ate. I have proposed to establish an immunization fund for the sustainable financial sources for immunization. 204. The pre-examination of kidney disease will be i nitiated in 500 health posts, 300 primary health centers and hospitals in coming Fiscal Year. In the coming Fiscal Year, "Mid Wifery" education will be started for promoting the policy of providing maternal care services through skilled health personnel. I have do ubled the travel allowance and increased the dress allowance to Rs 5,000 for women health volunteers. 205. I have allocated Rs. 33.52 billion for the over all development of health sector. I have expected that this will help decrease the infant, c hild and maternal mortality rate and the average life expectancy of Nepalese will be increased in coming Fiscal Year. Youth and Sports 206. The Government will start structural reform wor ks for the formation of National Youth Council as specified in the National Youth Policy, 20 10. Vision for Youth Development, 2025 will be formulated and brought into operation. 207. I have allocated budget for imparting employme nt-oriented and entrepreneurship development trainings to the youths to make them pa rticipate in nation building under youth targeted programs in various regions. 208. Under the campaign of constructing at least one sports ground in a constituency within coming 3 years, sports grounds will be constructed i n additional 53 electoral constituencies in the coming Fiscal Year. 27 209. Maintaining the achievements made so far in are a of cricket sports, additional infrastructure including a new parapet of internati onal standard will be constructed in the cricket ground in Mulpani for its further development. I have allocated Rs 200 million for this. Construction of cricket ground in Bhairahawa w ill be completed and construction of cricket grounds in other potential areas will be started. Labour and Employment 210. Entrepreneurial and skill oriented training will be made more effective by increasing selfemployment of youth to promote domestic employment. The quality of training will be ensured through the partnership of the institutions providing such training with the technical schools of each electoral constituency in tegrated with national skill audit committee. 211. A national skill development policy will be fo rmulated to maintain and extend quality avoiding the repetition in skill oriented training provided by different agencies. 212. The fraud prevailing in foreign employment will be controlled by the use of information technology, reform in organization structure and se rvice delivery. Foreign Nepalese diplomatic mission and Non Resident Nepalese Associ ation will be mobilized to rescue the Nepali migrant workers in difficulties. 213. A study will be conducted to establish a labor bank in the joint investment of employer, employee, and the government. Women Empowerment and Gender Equality 214. A targeted women economic empowerment campaign will be launched throughout the nation in order to enhance access of different wome n groups and communities in economic resources. A summary procedure will be init iated in all types of courts in order to discourage violence against women and provide ju stice to the victims. National Level Mangala-Sahana Rehabilitation Center will be establi shed in order to protect and rehabilitate violence affected women and girls. 215. Employment Program will be conducted for girls a nd women of liberated Kamalari, liberated Kamaiya, oppressed group of Badi, Chepang, Ra ute and Gandharva communities. Senior Citizens and Disability 216. Day Care Service Centers and senior citizen cl ubs will be expanded in participation with private sector in order to transfer knowledge, skil l and experience of senior citizens to new generation and at the same time to make their l onely life easy and pleasant. Pashupati Old Age Home located at the vicinity of Pash upati will be made well equipped with all relevant facilities. 28 217. Community based rehabilitation programme will be effectively conducted for the differently able people. The education and health fa cilities to be built will be made disabled friendly, Children 218. In order to effectively operate Child Helpline 1098 and Children Search Centre 104, both the centers will be expanded and made well equipped , thereby providing emergency service and rescue to the children at risk. 219. Existing ten year action plan will be amended an d standard Residential Child Correction Home will be operated in order to control exploitat ion, mistreatment, and violence against children and adolescents. The mistreated ado lescents will be encouraged to be self dependent through education and skill provided by the rehabilitation center. Social Security 220. Despite the allocation of a large share of ann ual budget in the Social Security compared to other developing countries, Nepal has not achiev ed effective result due to scattered implementation through different agencies. In order to avoid duplication in various programs and provide returns to the beneficiaries, a n Integrated Social Security Bill will be drafted and presented to the Legislature-Parliame nt. In absence of National Identity Card (NIC), Electoral Identity Card (EIC) will be u sed in order to make the distribution of social security allowances effective. Seven diff erent schemes will be implemented by managing the record of social security fund and preparing contributor’s biometric identity card. 221. I have increased monthly allowance to Rs.7 thou sand for the injured and martyr’s family members of the second people’s movement. I have pro posed to provide a monthly allowance of Rs. 300 to extremely disable card holder. 222. I have given continuity to the social security allowance which is being provided by local bodies to the senior citizen, Dalit senior citizen, single woman, disabled, endangered caste, and child protection. I have also provisioned Rs. 2000 to the senior citizens above 70 years of age as annual additional medical allowa nces on top of existing allowances, avoiding double counting. 223. The health insurance program which is initiated to insure different 39 diseases in the current Fiscal Year will be extended to 15 district s by covering at least 3 districts of each Development Region in coming Fiscal Year. The treatm ent cost for Heart diseases, Cancer, Kidney diseases, Parkinson, Alzheimer, Spinal i njury and Head injury will be provided from Disadvantaged Citizen Treatment Fund (DCTF). 224. In order to provide health services to the tar get-groups, pregnancy and delivery service to remote area, grant to leprosy-affected patient, Safe Motherhood Program, Infant Warm Kit Program free of cost services at community hospit al, integrated female health and 29 reproductive health program, children health and nutrition programs will be implemented. Similarly, Safe Motherhood Program will be made further effective. Silicon Ring Peccary which is used in the treatment of Uterine Prolepses will be provided free of cost. 225. I have given continuity to the free treatment o f heart related diseases associated with children below 15 years of age and the senior citiz ens above 75 years. Children welfare program will be made further effective through chil d correction home, child welfare home and child care center. 226. There will be a continuation of women empowerme nt and awareness program through constituting Women Groups at ward level of entire V DCs. I have increased monthly allowance for women social volunteers by Rs. 15000. 227. I have given continuity to the Janata Awas Karya kram in order to provide housing facilities to disadvantaged and marginalized citize ns. Under this program, 1762 citizen houses will be constructed for communities such as Dalit, poor Musalman, Chepang, Badi, Kusunda, Gandharwa, Raji and Lodh. 228. The identification program of poor households w ill be completed in 25 districts in coming year. 229. Poverty alleviation programs will be reached to the target groups. In coming Fiscal Year, 2,360 income generating programs and 850 infrastruc ture development programs will be implemented through Poverty Alleviation Fund. From thi s program, additional 60000 people will be benefitted. I have allocated a total of Rs. 3.61 billion for this program. 230. I have allocated a total of Rs. 55 billion for the C ivil Servants' pension and social security programs implemented through various agencies. Good Governance and General Administration 231. Legislations in line with United Nations Conven tion against Corruption will be enacted and enforced. Necessary arrangements will be made in order to promote lead role of Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority (CIAA) for monitoring and implementation of the National Policy against Corrup tion and for coordinating among various agencies engaged in corruption control functions. 232. State policy and program framework for crime min imization will be designed on the basis of statistical information on real crime situ ation in the country, to be generated through conducting a baseline survey. 233. In order to make people feel the sense of good governance, the government will guarantee the rule of law, end impunity and enhance transparency, accountability and responsibility. Public service delivery will be made simple, easy and accessible. The government will start distribution of National Iden tity Card in the form of biometric smart card. 30 234. Minimum humanitarian treatment will be accorde d to the prisoners through introducing necessary reform in the jail system. In course of d eveloping prisons as rehabilitation centers, the government will start construction of c entral jail in Nuwakot and open jail in Naubasta of Banke, in the coming Fiscal Year. 235. Immigration Modernization Plan, 2013 will be im plemented for overall reform of immigration administration. Electronic technology will be used in immigration services. 236. As all passports should be machine readable by March, 2015, the passport distribution procedure will be simplified through the use of online application. 237. Accruing and construction of building for Nepa li missions abroad will be carried out gradually from coming fiscal year. I have allocated necessary budget for this. 238. Commitment Recording System will be introduced to ensure full accounting of the financial liability of the Government. Government ac counting and reporting system will be made reliable and time-bound. The Government will further enhance the auditing system to ensure financial discipline. 239. The government will make necessary arrangement f or mutual internship between public and private sector authorities/employees in order t o promote Best Practices adopted by private sector and familiarize them with the public operating procedures. Training related to private sector will be provided to 400 civil servants in coming year. 240. In order to boost the morale of civil servants and motivate them for better performance, I have increased the existing basic pay scale of all the civil servants by 10 percent, with concomitant increment in annual grade. In addition to this, I have increased local allowance by 25 percent and field allowances by 50 percent. I have proposed to provide annual uniform allowance of Rs. 15 thousand for the civil servants working in high mountain districts. A high level pay commission will be formed to make the civil servants' pay scale scientific after linking the an nual increment with basic pay scale and to review other facilities and incentives. Security 241. Necessary amendments will be made in Army Act, 2006. From Bunker to Barrack plan will be more effectively implemented so as to ensur e proper management of residence and other physical infrastructures required for Nep al Army. I have allocated Rs. 28.86 billion for the Defense Ministry. 242. In addition to existing roads under constructio n by Nepal Army, Mailung-Syaprubeshi Road and Khulalu-Simikot section of Karnali Corridor w ill be constructed through Nepal Army, thereby establishing the role of Nepal Army in infrastructure development. Bank and Financial Sector The following reform activities will be carried out in the Bank and Financial Sector: 31 243. A national level rural development bank will b e established in coming year by merging five rural development banks. 244. Provisions will be made to make guarantees issu ed by development banks and financial companies valid for public purchase under certain c onditions considering the fact that services provided by commercial banks have not yet reached at various areas in the country. 245. Foreign banks will be invited as strategic partn ers through divesting public shares in order to make banking transactions of Nepal Bank Li mited and Agricultural Development Bank Limited at par with international standard. 246. A study will be carried out to invite national or international strategic partners in order to modernize and commercialize Nepal Stock Exchange an d to make it internationally competitive. Daily transactions of Nepal Stock Exchange will be fully automated in order to simplify share transactions. 247. In order to increase the access of insurance in rural areas and provide insurance coverage in sectors including agriculture, livestock and cro p production, micro insurance policy will be formulated and implemented. Existing communi ty based institutional securities will be expanded. 248. Accidental insurance fund will be transformed i nto Reinsurance Company with Rs. 5 billion authorized capital in partnership with insurance companies. Public Enterprises 249. Public enterprises which are non-competitive an d non-attractive to the private sector, and are borrowing even to meet the expenses of their st aff salary will be liquidated by providing payoff. To further ease the procedure of li quidation, necessary amendment will be made in Company Act and the liquidator’s roles, r esponsibilities and liabilities will be made clearer. 250. Public Enterprises, where private sector is effic ient and the involvement of the government is not necessary, will be operated under PPP model after completing the due process of law. Necessary amendment will be made in Privatization Act, 1994. Public Enterprises involving in similar nature of work will be merged in order to enhance their capacities and reduce operation cost, thereby to achieve reform in management. Honorable Speaker, Now I would like to present the budget allocation a nd resource management plan for the implementation of the abovementioned sectoral policies and programs. 251. I have proposed Rs. 618.10 billion in order to impl ement policies and programs of the FY 2014/15. Out of total budget, I have proposed Rs. 39 8.95 billion or 64.5 percent for the current expenditure, Rs. 116.75 billion or 18.9 perce nt for capital expenditure and Rs. 32 102.39 billion or 16.6 percent for financing. Proposed allocation is 19.5 percent higher than the estimates and 37.4 percent higher than the r evised estimates of the current Fiscal Year. 252. Regarding the financing of the proposed alloca tion for the next Fiscal Year, Rs. 422.9 billion will be financed from revenue mobilization, Rs. 1 billion from principal repayment and Rs. 73.38 billion from foreign grants. With this financing, the budget deficit will remain at Rs. 121.81 billion. To meet th is deficit, Rs. 49.52 billion will be borne from foreign loan. After financing from mobil izing from resources from revenue and foreign aid, there will be net deficit of Rs. 71.28 billion. Of the total deficit, Rs. 52.75 billion will be financed from domestic borrowing an d Rs. 18.53 billion from current years cash balance. 33 Honorable Speaker, Now, I would like to present revenue policy and provisions for the FY 2014/15. Revenue Policy of the Fiscal Year 2014/15 253. In order to make the revenue system reliable s o as to meet the demand of rising public expenditure, revenue policy for coming Fiscal Year will be as following: • Initiate timely reform in tax system and tax laws to deal with the new challenges; • Import substitution along with export promotion; • Control of illegal trade, revenue leakages, illicit trade of foreign currency and money laundering; • Enhance voluntary compliance through procedural simp lification and information technology; • Adjustment of customs tariff rates in line with the international and regional commitments; • Make non-tax revenue cost-effective and transparent; • Additional specialization and structural reforms in revenue administration. 254. In order to implement stated revenue policies, the following strategies and programs will be implemented: Tax System Reform • A high level tax system review commission will be formed; • Necessary amendments will be made in the Customs Act in line with Kyoto Protocol propounded by the World Customs Organization; • A mandatory provision will be made to obtain Permane nt Account Number to all public entities, individuals and professionals who d raw salary, remuneration including services and benefits from the public exchequer; • Control and access of tax administration to the rec ords of the taxpayers will be established by means of information technology; • The legal provision that bans sales and distribution o f liquors and other consumables goods from the same place will be strictly enforced; • Central information system of the Department of Rev enue Investigation will be changed into web-based system and a mechanism will be developed to declare information of transported goods into the system by the carrier firms and companies; • International commitments made against the money la undering will be implemented gradually; 34 • The recommendations made by the Revenue Exemption Imp act Evaluation Taskforce and Non-Tax Revenue System Reform Taskforce will be implemented gradually; • In view of the provisions made by the Finance Acts about partial refund of the Value Added Tax to different industries and businesses, an inter organizational coordination mechanism will be formed consisting of the officials from the Commerce and Supply Ministry, Industry Ministry and the Inland Revenue Department will monitor the production processes, quality, impact on the consumers' prices, price received by the farmers for the suppl y of the raw materials to those industries, and market mechanism. Moreover, a regular reporting system will be established through this mechanism. • In order to discourage the illegal import and use o f mobile set and to set a standard of mobile (type approval), an operational manual wi ll be formulated and implemented for making Equipment Identity Register System more effective Tax Exemptions and Concessions • Infrastructure will be built for the introduction o f e-payment system in tax. Facilities to read tax related information through electronic means will be made available to the taxpayers. • Double Taxation Avoidance and Prevention of Fiscal Ev asion Agreement will be prepared with the countries having the potential of investment and technology transfer. • I have increased the income tax exemption limit to Rs. 250 thousand to an individual and Rs. 300 thousand to the couple. • For trade facilitation and to reduce the paper works , the existing customs clearance process will be simplified. • An arrangement will be made to transport the goods and services cleared by customs through sealed Container. • In order to simplify the export to Tibet via Tatopan i customs, a seal affixation arrangement will be made at Tribhuwan Airport Customs Office. • Existing provision of declaring more than US$ 5,000.0 0 or equivalent foreign convertible currency by foreign citizen at the customs point will be reviewed. • I have simplified processes for export promotion. • I have proposed to provide 50 percent rebate in cus toms duties for the transportation vehicle imported by tea production and processing industries. • I have proposed to provide exemption of all the tax es and fees, chargeable on the import of a television set of up to 32 inches of an y types to the Nepali citizens who had spent more than one year abroad in the foreign employment. 35 • With a view to develop tourism and transport system, I have made an arrangement to provide 50 percent rebate on the customs duties to the cable car industry on import of cable, readymade cab and steel blade required for the construction of cab. • I have mentioned different exemption and concession provided for the promotion of investment in the respective sectors. Revenue Administration Reform 255. In order to make revenue administration more e ffective, all taxpayers with a transaction of up to Rs. 50 million registered in existing Kath mandu-based Taxpayer Service Offices will be administered fully by those Taxpayer Service Offices with effect from 17 July 2014. On the basis of volume of transaction and numb er of taxpayer, expansion of additional tax office and up-gradation of existing taxpayer service office will be carried out. 256. Revenue Administration Training Center will be d eveloped as a research and development and record repository center by develop ing its infrastructure and undertaking structural reforms. Right Honorable Speaker, 257. It is estimated that a 6 percent growth rate wi ll be achieved in the coming fiscal year by the implementation of this budget. Inflation will be contained within 8 percent. Moreover, with the implementation of this budget, I have anticipated that physical infrastructure will be expanded, investment by private sector will be in creased, capital market will take momentum, social justice and securities will be enh anced, fiscal balance will be maintained and overall economic reform will be attained. 258. Nepal Rastra Bank will make public monetary pol icy soon in order to bring about positive effects on price stability and macroeconom ic indicators during the implementation of this budget. 259. I have presented actual income and expenditure of Fis cal Year 2012/13, revised estimates of Fiscal Year 2013/14 and estimated income and expe nditure of Fiscal Year 2014/15 in the Annexes. 260. I have presented indicators for the expected ou tcomes in a separate Annex to monitor the implementation of this budget. 261. Nepal, which is passing through a transition at present, is on the one hand looking forward for a Democratic Federal Republic Constitut ion, and on the other hand, is aspiring for a rapid economic development. Now, our c ommitments should be directed towards achieving those objectives. We have no alte rnatives than to be committed to this landmark journey. For this to happen, it is necessar y to sprout the efforts, energy, entrepreneurship and creativity of all people of th e country. I am hopeful that this budget will contribute to this end. 36 262. I express my sincere gratitude to Right Honorab le President for his direction and inspiration while preparing this budget. I am also e qually indebted to Right Honorable Prime Minister for his directions in preparing the b udget. I am also thankful to the Honorable Members of the Legislature-Parliament for the suggestion during pre-budget discussion in the Parliament. Likewise, I would also like to thank to all taxpayers, business and professional organizations, press, civ il society, intellectuals, economists, and government employees. I express my sincere than ks to all development partners for their continued support in the socio-economic devel opment of Nepal. I also expect cooperation from all quarters of the society in implementing this budget. Thank you and Jaya Nepal ! Report No. 01 Page 1 / 1 Revenue & Grant Less Expenditure Taxes Non Tax Revenue Cash Balance of Last Year and Irregularitie Grants Compensation of employees Use of goods and services Interest ,Services and Bank Commission Subsidies Grants Social Security Other Expenditure Capital Expenditure 259,214,937 36,806,217 1,921,192 35,229,805 66,046,069 23,285,264 13,736,698 4,227,339 102,489,887 37,544,251 125,964 54,598,425 312,621,599 41,907,831 0 47,311,048 84,260,373 29,008,578 17,547,715 1,154,412 142,328,878 42,048,729 291,394 63,870,256 374,705,998 48,194,002 18,535,306 73,385,924 104,912,461 63,106,230 23,354,573 2,615,162 146,349,603 58,243,777 369,389 116,755,042 374,705,998 48,194,002 18,535,306 104,725,790 46,616,727 23,354,573 1,444,124 116,214,936 56,041,099 369,389 71,870,334 73,385,924 174,234 15,308,699 1,171,038 27,162,840 2,064,086 24,262,419 12,437 1,180,804 2,971,827 138,592 20,622,289 401,840,478 380,510,335 333,172,151 302,053,897 514,821,230 515,706,237 24,925,949 73,385,924 70,143,316 441,435,306 420,636,972 24,925,949Budget Surplus (-)/ Deficit -3,242,608-20,798,334 885,007-21,330,143-31,118,254 Financing -3,847,364 Internal Loan Less Internal Loan Refund Domestic Share Investments Foreign Share Investments External Amortizations Less External Borrowing Domestic Amortization Less Domestic Borrowing 12,552,099 755,307 5,356,545 3,545,268 14,190,079 11,969,444 20,940,092 19,042,855 18,555,671 5,500,000 9,678,479 38,728 15,916,357 23,689,050 25,152,451 44,000,000 35,678,571 1,000,000 13,893,608 20,276,684 49,528,770 32,544,900 52,750,000 14,753,250 1,000,000 6,973,500 20,276,684 32,544,900 52,750,000 732,500 2,510,108 20,192,821 4,410,000 49,528,770 Under/Over(-) -6,301,777 -25,177,507 0 0 0 0 24,816,477 -885,007 -24,925,949 3,242,608 20,798,334 Budget Summary Fiscal Year 2014/15 (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 1 Net Internal Loan Net Investment External Net Borrowing Domestic Net Borrowing 11,796,792 8,901,813 2,220,635 1,897,237 13,055,671 9,717,207 -7,772,693 -18,847,549 34,678,571 13,893,608 -29,252,086 -20,205,100 13,753,250 6,973,500 20,276,684 -20,205,100 732,500 2,510,108 20,192,821 4,410,000 -49,528,770 Revenue Grant Recurrent Capital 297,942,346 35,229,805 247,455,472 54,598,425 354,529,430 47,311,048 316,640,079 63,870,256 441,435,306 73,385,924 398,951,195 116,755,042 441,435,306 348,766,638 71,870,334 73,385,924 45,880,897 24,262,419 4,303,660 20,622,289 2013/142012/13 Actual Estimate GON Grant Loan 2014/15Heading Source Revised Report No. 02 Page 1 / 4 Taxes Taxes on income, profits, and capital gains Taxes on payroll and workforce Taxes on property Taxes on goods and services Payable by individuals & Sole Traders Payable by entrerprizes and corporations Taxes on Investment and other income Social Security Taxes on payroll Recurrent taxes on immovable property Taxes on financial and capital transactions VAT Excise 15,541,481 37,067,243 11,577,967 1,880,629 3,742 5,336,426 83,418,369 36,234,664 Individual or Sole Traders Remuneration Tax Capital Gain Individuals Company Profit Tax Government Corporations Companies Company Profit Tax Public Limited Companies Company Profit Tax Private LimitedCcompanies Company Profit Tax Other Institutions Capital gain Entity Taxes on Rent & Lease Income Interest Dividend Other Investment Income Tax on gambling, lottery, souviner and grants Taxes on other income Social Security Taxes on payroll Annual Property Tax House and Land Registration VAT Production VAT Import VAT Goods, Sales & Distribution VAT Services & Contracts VAT Services, Tourism VAT Telephone, Insurance & Air Travel VAT Non Registered(Reverse Charge) Tobacco Alcohol Beer Excise on other produced items 6,175,637 8,448,569 917,275 4,783,326 14,164,759 15,126,321 2,769,759 223,078 3,834,732 5,500,558 1,732,475 5,920 68,395 435,887 1,880,629 3,742 5,336,426 9,748,839 55,038,307 6,307,670 5,506,326 1,201,979 4,359,485 1,255,763 5,357,636 8,353,556 4,864,812 3,077,067 7,855,144 10,496,324 1,503,705 4,499,978 16,455,031 17,170,843 3,716,535 132,994 3,534,512 7,206,458 2,136,867 9,916 71,387 448,290 2,735,011 45,186 4,628,254 11,452,440 67,198,113 7,866,483 6,494,784 1,465,932 5,490,647 1,558,489 7,288,072 10,368,955 5,293,315 3,712,541 9,424,876 12,680,247 1,771,488 5,433,523 19,962,529 20,838,207 4,512,328 161,472 5,351,640 7,732,734 2,434,467 8,011 96,546 610,243 2,999,055 53,681 5,368,775 13,742,928 80,577,735 9,379,780 7,793,741 1,779,118 6,587,250 1,870,187 8,883,278 12,621,969 6,404,311 4,470,129 9,365,946 12,600,495 1,759,979 5,399,376 19,902,593 20,756,902 4,484,126 161,472 5,317,942 7,684,376 2,419,252 7,959 95,944 606,429 2,939,074 53,681 5,242,325 13,657,035 80,118,100 9,320,781 7,745,030 1,768,124 6,552,329 1,860,163 8,807,391 12,514,002 6,349,194 4,441,705 58,930 79,752 11,509 34,147 59,936 81,305 28,202 33,698 48,358 15,215 52 602 3,814 59,981 126,450 85,893 459,635 58,999 48,711 10,994 34,921 10,024 75,887 107,967 55,117 28,424 11111 11112 11113 11121 11122 11123 11124 11125 11131 11132 11133 11134 11135 11136 11211 11311 11341 11411 11412 11413 11414 11415 11416 11417 11421 11422 11423 11424 19,855,173 41,975,381 13,407,430 2,735,011 45,186 4,628,254 101,526,888 45,390,621 23,876,611 50,908,059 16,233,641 2,999,055 53,681 5,368,775 121,730,739 55,331,167 23,726,420 50,704,469 16,131,902 2,939,074 53,681 5,242,325 121,021,562 54,920,388 150,191 203,590 101,739 59,981 126,450 709,177 410,779 455,520 59,981 126,450 1,185,346 90,562,791 2,939,074 5,296,006 190,842,833 91,018,311 2,999,055 5,422,456 192,028,179 75,237,984 2,735,011 4,673,440 158,690,959 64,186,691 1,880,629 5,340,168 129,270,480 312,621,599 259,214,937 374,705,998 1,827,297 372,878,701 Receipts of Revenue and Grants Estimate (Rs. in '000 ) Annex-2 Heading Actual Estimate Existing Measures New Measures 2013/142012/13 2014/15 Revised Report No. 02 Page 2 / 4 Grants Taxes on international trade and transactions Other taxes Grants from foreign governments Grants from international organizations Taxes on specific services Taxes on use of goods and on permission to use goods Customs and other import duties Taxes on exports Other taxes on international trade and transactions Registration Fee Ownership Certificate Charge Recurrent Grant Capital Grant 655,328 8,962,119 54,327,890 439,097 2,164,828 623,402 981,752 12,869,491 3,914,008 Import Duties Foreign Employment Services Health Services Education ServicesEducation Institute Education ServicesAboard Study Vehicle Tax Taxes on the use of infrastructure Road Maintenance and Improvement Duty Road Construction and Maintenance Duty Import duties Indian Excise Refund Fees Local Development Fees Export duty Export Service Charge Agriculture service charge on imports Other Income related to Customs Firm Registration Fee Agency Registeration Fee Driving Licence & Vehicle Ownership Certificate Charge Fire Arms Registration Recurrent Grant Capital Grant 14,581,593 487 338,182 253,103 63,556 4,313,945 1,502,280 1,510,275 1,635,619 50,847,122 3,479,424 1,344 423,385 15,712 1,719,126 445,702 603,874 19,528 970,653 11,099 12,869,491 3,914,008 18,727,738 445 427,350 304,276 109,705 4,605,238 2,205,914 2,217,422 1,903,100 62,831,483 2,678,993 166 987,778 5,370 2,406,949 452,335 727,375 20,369 1,162,317 11,070 16,457,971 8,490,256 22,951,480 500 508,547 386,042 116,313 5,503,259 2,946,203 2,962,697 2,542,712 72,593,796 4,025,191 497 871,430 7,159 2,525,893 645,290 971,845 29,135 1,552,971 14,790 19,471,764 11,938,345 22,808,096 500 508,547 383,654 116,313 5,440,257 2,946,203 2,962,697 2,542,712 72,593,796 4,025,191 497 871,430 7,159 2,525,893 645,290 971,845 29,135 1,552,971 14,790 19,471,764 11,938,345 143,384 2,388 63,002 11425 11441 11442 11443 11444 11451 11452 11453 11454 11511 11512 11513 11521 11522 11561 11562 11611 11612 11621 11622 13111 13121 841,776 10,931,674 65,510,642 993,148 2,859,284 747,744 1,173,387 16,457,971 8,490,256 1,011,402 13,954,871 76,619,484 878,589 3,171,183 1,000,980 1,567,761 19,471,764 11,938,345 1,009,014 13,891,869 76,619,484 878,589 3,171,183 1,000,980 1,567,761 19,471,764 11,938,345 2,388 63,002 80,669,256 2,568,741 31,410,109 31,274,751 80,669,256 2,568,741 31,410,109 31,274,751 69,363,074 1,921,131 24,948,227 16,208,137 56,931,815 1,605,154 16,783,499 11,794,632 47,311,048 35,229,805 73,385,924 73,385,924 Heading Actual Estimate Existing Measures New Measures 2013/142012/13 2014/15 Revised Report No. 02 Page 3 / 4 Non Tax Revenue Other Grants from international organizations Property Income Sales of Goods and Services Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Interest Dividends Rent & Royalty Sales of Goods 7,542,840 4,251,792 4,641,521 2,010,153 527,863 10,843,656 6,236,886 5,374,138 Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Capital Grant Capital Grant Interest from financial institutions Interest from commercial institutions Interest from industrial institutions Interest from service oriented institutions Interest from other institutions Dividend from Financial Institutions Dividend from Commercial Institutions Dividend from Industrial Institution Dividend from Service Oriented Organization Dividend from Other Institutions Rent on Lease of Government Property Royalty on Casino Operations. Royalty from Mine Extraction Income & Royalty from Water Resources SectorHydro Power Projects Royalty and Other Income from the Sales of Forest Products Other Royalty Sales of agriculture product Sale of Government Property Sales of other items Telephone Services Fee Charge for the use of Telephone Services Water Connection & Supply 7,542,840 4,251,792 4,641,521 2,010,153 232,103 5,330 41 289,550 839 4,230,822 1,059 23,938 6,587,777 60 285,564 123,573 69,358 1,564,406 1,356,909 2,837,076 109,374 267,338 56,626 4,078,634 824,729 35,714 10,941,184 5,266,953 5,721,094 433,590 249,789 5,830 45 313,941 909 5,757,245 748 25,566 7,142,889 65 310,030 83,950 75,237 1,916,230 1,471,410 3,176,128 118,750 64,625 61,386 4,790,202 980,296 961 16,802,840 14,471,911 9,606,293 1,094,771 303,939 7,041 54 379,126 1,098 5,579,708 903 30,874 8,559,486 79 374,402 161,762 90,859 2,098,423 1,776,923 3,684,833 143,406 78,044 74,132 5,545,816 1,183,838 1,160 16,802,840 14,471,911 9,606,293 1,094,771 303,939 7,041 54 379,126 1,098 5,579,708 903 30,874 8,559,486 79 374,402 137,498 90,859 2,098,423 1,776,923 3,684,833 143,406 78,044 74,132 5,545,816 1,183,838 1,160 24,264 13211 13221 13311 13321 14111 14112 14113 14114 14115 14121 14122 14123 14124 14125 14151 14152 14153 14154 14155 14156 14211 14212 14213 14214 14215 14216 10,941,184 5,266,953 5,721,094 433,590 570,514 12,926,513 7,032,985 6,017,978 16,802,840 14,471,911 9,606,293 1,094,771 691,258 14,171,050 8,187,202 7,028,518 16,802,840 14,471,911 9,606,293 1,094,771 691,258 14,171,050 8,162,938 7,028,518 24,264 24,264 10,701,064 23,025,246 14,723,367 10,701,064 23,049,510 14,723,367 6,154,684 20,530,012 12,679,824 6,651,674 17,608,405 11,247,046 41,907,831 36,806,217 48,194,002 24,264 48,169,738 Heading Actual Estimate Existing Measures New Measures 2013/142012/13 2014/15 Revised Report No. 02 Page 4 / 4 Cash Balance of Last Year and Irregularities Penalties Fines & Forfeiture Voluntary Transfers other than Grants Miscellaneous Revenue Cash Balance of Last Year and Irregularities Administrative Fees Penalties Fines & Forfeiture Voluntary Transfers other than Grants Administrative Fee Immigration and Tourism Other Revenue Capital Revenue Cash Balance of Last Year and Irregularities 5,872,908 338,151 5,142 6,764,232 832,290 10,951 1,921,192 Fee for use of Water for Irrigation Charges for Consumption of Electricity Judicial Fee Duty Charges for use of Postal Services Income from Education Sector Exam Fee Transport Sector Export Import Licence Fee Other Administrative Fees Judicial Penalty, Fines and Forfeiture Administrative Penalty, Fines and Forfeiture Recurrent Capital Charges for Issuing Passports Visa Fees Permit for Mountainering and Trekking Other Fee from Tourists Pollution Control Fees Other Revenue Sales of Government Land and Building Cash Balance of Last Year Irregularities 1,090 633 528,960 260,628 485,507 404,557 167,991 57,478 3,967,787 84,401 253,750 718 4,424 4,196,968 2,010,566 552,677 4,021 676,357 155,933 10,951 1,052,212 868,980 1,163 595 573,784 282,979 527,226 440,055 183,431 62,342 4,592,029 91,357 275,795 421 1,471 4,637,732 2,179,985 599,233 4,360 732,478 169,730 5,433 1,404 718 692,920 341,734 636,695 531,425 221,517 75,287 5,195,271 110,326 333,059 1,029 1,381 5,511,656 2,638,660 723,653 5,265 884,564 204,971 6,561 18,535,306 1,404 718 692,920 341,734 636,695 531,425 221,517 75,287 5,195,271 110,326 333,059 1,029 1,381 5,511,656 2,638,660 723,653 5,265 884,564 204,971 6,561 18,535,306 14217 14218 14221 14222 14223 14224 14225 14226 14227 14311 14312 14411 14412 14511 14512 14513 14514 14521 14522 14531 15111 15112 6,661,846 367,152 1,892 7,421,310 902,208 5,433 7,694,849 443,385 2,410 8,879,234 1,089,535 6,561 18,535,306 7,694,849 443,385 2,410 8,879,234 1,089,535 6,561 18,535,306 443,385 2,410 9,975,330 18,535,306 443,385 2,410 9,975,330 18,535,306 367,152 1,892 8,328,951 338,151 5,142 7,607,473 1,921,192 1,921,192 18,535,306 18,535,306 Total Revenue,Grants 1,851,561 512,969,669 514,821,230 401,840,478 333,172,151 Heading Actual Estimate Existing Measures New Measures 2013/142012/13 2014/15 Revised Report No. 03 Page 1 / 1 2012/13 Actual 2013/14 Compensation of employees Use of goods and services Interest ,Services and Bank Commission Subsidies Grants Social Security Other Expenditure Capital Expenditure Wages and salaries Rent & Services Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets Offices Materials & Services Consultancy and Other Services fee Program Expenses Monitoring,Evaluation & Travelling Expenses Miscellaneous Recurrent Contingencies Interest on Foreign Loan Interest on Internal Loan Subsidies to Public Corporations Subsidies to Private Enterprises Grant to Social Service Grant to Local body Grant to Social Service Social Security Scholarships Retirement Benefits property Related Expenditure Refunds Land Building Furniture & Fittings Vehicles Plant & Machinery Civil Works Capital Research & Consultancy Capital Contingencies 66,046,069 2,278,653 2,400,904 2,540,180 2,289,056 10,194,816 1,765,673 1,815,982 3,003,188 10,733,510 985,693 3,241,646 101 23,299,644 79,190,142 11,630,140 1,914,181 23,999,930 44,381 81,583 2,798,269 6,494,410 381,364 1,173,118 2,610,188 39,050,395 2,090,681 84,260,373 3,210,013 3,064,178 2,900,086 3,292,624 13,395,159 2,178,391 968,127 3,487,802 14,059,913 1,043,909 110,503 310,803 36,043,992 105,974,083 12,266,329 1,792,679 27,989,721 9,881 281,513 1,450,141 8,038,898 414,150 4,090,369 3,815,910 43,417,660 2,643,128 104,912,461 3,349,320 3,913,248 3,662,893 6,203,099 22,617,676 2,168,726 851,980 20,339,288 4,846,931 18,507,642 1,765,552 849,610 633,674 34,003,459 111,712,470 14,693,965 2,545,065 41,004,747 9,389 360,000 2,786,607 14,568,876 629,829 1,736,530 6,413,777 79,347,638 8,152,656 3,119,129 104,725,790 3,265,904 3,750,933 3,485,793 2,819,673 11,518,503 1,821,373 815,933 19,138,615 4,846,931 18,507,642 1,358,552 85,572 633,674 24,557,624 91,023,638 13,660,965 1,377,115 41,003,019 9,389 360,000 2,786,607 11,148,447 561,492 1,209,676 3,617,773 46,096,498 3,450,512 2,999,329 174,234 66,398 142,357 158,619 3,152,946 10,231,502 328,433 31,444 1,197,000 407,000 764,038 7,326,949 19,835,891 1,033,000 1,030,550 536 1,310,277 61,357 455,580 2,338,292 16,215,645 3,761,468 119,800 12,437 17,018 19,958 18,481 230,480 867,671 18,920 4,603 3,673 2,118,886 852,941 137,400 1,192 2,110,152 6,980 71,274 457,712 17,035,495 940,676 12,437 1,180,804 2,971,827 138,592 20,622,289 174,234 15,308,699 1,171,038 27,162,840 2,064,086 24,262,419 104,725,790 46,616,727 23,354,573 1,444,124 116,214,936 56,041,099 369,389 71,870,334 104,912,461 63,106,230 23,354,573 2,615,162 146,349,603 58,243,777 369,389 116,755,042 84,260,373 29,008,578 17,547,715 1,154,412 142,328,878 42,048,729 291,394 63,870,256 66,046,069 23,285,264 13,736,698 4,227,339 102,489,887 37,544,251 125,964 54,598,425 515,706,237 302,053,897 380,510,335 24,925,949 70,143,316 420,636,972Total Estimate GON Grant Loan Heading 2014/15 (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 3 Expenditure Estimates 2014/15 Source Fiscal Year Revised Report No. 04 Page 1 / 1 2013/14 Fiscal Policy (L-R) Liquidity Net Internal Loan Net Investment External Net Borrowing Domestic Net Borrowing Internal Loan Internal Loan Refund Internal Loan Refund Domestic Share Investments Foreign Share Investments External Amortizations External Borrowing Domestic Amortization Domestic Borrowing 12,552,099 -755,307 5,356,545 3,545,268 14,190,079 -11,969,444 20,940,092 -19,042,855 18,555,671 -5,500,000 9,678,479 38,728 15,916,357 -23,689,050 25,152,451 -44,000,000 35,678,571 -1,000,000 13,893,608 20,276,684 -49,528,770 32,544,900 -52,750,000 14,753,250 -1,000,000 6,973,500 20,276,684 32,544,900 -52,750,000 732,500 2,510,108 20,192,821 4,410,000 -49,528,770 20,192,821 4,410,000 -49,528,770 732,500 2,510,108 13,753,250 6,973,500 20,276,684 -20,205,100 34,678,571 13,893,608 -29,252,086 -20,205,100 13,055,671 9,717,207 -7,772,693 -18,847,549 11,796,792 8,901,813 2,220,635 1,897,237 22,772,878 -26,620,242 20,698,605 4,117,872 48,572,179 -49,457,186 24,602,821 -49,528,770 3,242,608 20,726,750 71,584 -24,925,949Total Financing 3,242,608 20,798,334-885,007-3,847,364 24,816,477 2012/13 Actual Estimate GON Grant Loan Heading 2014/15 Financing Economic Overview (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 4 2014/15 Source Fiscal Year Revised Report No. 05 Page 1 / 2 2013/14 GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICES DEFENCE PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY ECONOMIC AFFAIRS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES HEALTH RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION Executive and legislative organs, financial, fiscal affairs and external affairs General services R&D General public services General public services n.e.c. Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of government Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services Fire-protection services Law courts Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting Fuel and energy Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport Communication Other industries R&D Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. Waste management Waste water management Protection of biodiversity and landscape R&D Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. Housing development Community development Water supply Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services Hospital services Public health services R&D Health 60,097,072 1,737,614 702,996 31,673,602 10,323,601 20,771,202 127,973 20,895,499 4,361 2,210,130 786,077 13,866,819 7,467,893 28,853,990 13,324,743 1,526,306 27,908,484 2,823,662 1,752,320 357,234 103,550 1,173,997 53,286 7,484 510,442 1,103,333 96,021 7,052,452 2,822,419 888,875 2,562,111 6,551,650 10,030,423 1,838,608 58,591,858 1,898,395 21,873 598,777 39,212,364 14,441,466 30,522,773 1,083,000 68,026 32,936,164 5,370 3,425,496 899,591 6,345,881 11,459,097 39,558,028 24,295,288 1,463,776 35,445,143 3,709,103 2,696,750 572,107 272,325 1,160,373 101,634 28,299 120,000 2,470,307 2,653,172 10,526,521 831,734 612,044 1,511,459 9,494,711 12,396,455 2,409,743 118,748,667 13,255,263 16,840 4,451,222 53,052,542 15,353,630 28,721,098 2,598,790 38,740 21,327,419 6,011 4,277,688 1,016,798 7,840,822 12,394,470 53,967,930 37,222,518 2,680,194 51,154,299 4,255,696 6,376,963 1,709,597 436,679 2,680,076 2,074,359 17,500 805,000 5,214,433 4,044,679 2,005,690 15,260,400 1,031,597 902,897 5,535,856 10,933,335 15,434,406 4,960,006 113,836,231 11,901,569 16,840 4,272,846 53,052,542 14,191,630 28,721,098 38,740 21,327,419 6,011 4,277,688 1,016,798 5,240,822 4,833,540 41,177,572 14,155,131 1,830,194 33,136,520 4,093,428 3,436,468 1,448,420 106,179 1,125,876 446,859 206,500 1,147,626 3,068,476 239,575 7,876,415 384,657 142,357 1,543,639 10,305,192 9,692,431 4,569,176 4,912,436 1,292,411 1,162,000 229,790 2,600,000 5,701,765 9,084,629 5,837,637 850,000 11,131,733 162,268 980,800 261,177 500 127,500 17,500 2,026,560 874,903 1,766,115 1,629,110 646,940 460,540 3,992,217 628,143 3,995,210 390,830 61,283 178,376 2,369,000 1,859,165 3,705,729 17,229,750 6,886,046 1,959,695 330,000 1,554,200 1,500,000 598,500 2,040,247 101,300 5,754,875 300,000 1,746,765 239,659 2,369,000 31,970,385 5,692,947 5,856,175 2,046,765 7,366,847 229,790 2,600,000 34,010,509 2,171,560 4,917,068 9,466,940 277,000 197,271,658 28,759,838 31,868,738 104,217,452 2,926,861 11,569,123 26,252,795 3,704,663 204,878,164 31,358,628 34,468,738 170,198,346 10,791,368 22,342,366 37,766,500 3,981,663 114,764,733 31,673,799 43,612,502 119,471,617 3,880,613 14,011,427 26,424,412 3,838,458 104,534,885 20,899,175 37,762,886 84,118,182 1,745,209 11,074,225 21,871,667 2,411,946 33 5 6 28 2 4 6 1 2012/13 Actual Estimate GON Grant Loan Fiscal Year 2014/15 % of Total Functional Expenditure Estimates (Including Financing) (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 5 2014/15 Source Heading Revised Report No. 05 Page 2 / 2 2013/14 EDUCATION SOCIAL PROTECTION Recreational and sporting services Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R&D Social protection Social protection n.e.c. 655,987 1,536,398 219,561 21,815,552 10,817,337 17,068,815 12,430,101 297,974 147,169 10,468,099 264,970 909,788 1,308,848 2,278,423 251,187 26,120,173 13,350,000 22,355,589 16,736,545 794,308 470,395 10,872,757 86,364 1,388,329 1,483,757 1,937,686 560,220 29,424,572 15,407,005 24,269,510 15,167,273 1,765,695 1,173,236 13,055,773 125,940 1,925,223 1,471,457 1,937,686 295,520 29,006,945 15,407,005 14,351,908 14,905,113 4,901 243,713 12,958,724 125,940 1,609,929 12,300 264,700 417,627 9,917,602 262,160 631,078 705,400 97,049 315,294 1,129,716 224,123 1,129,716 224,123 11,228,467 1,117,743 73,675,872 14,938,306 86,034,055 16,280,172 79,356,615 12,817,845 62,429,779 11,790,026 14 3 49,528,770Total 73,385,924 495,185,306 618,100,000 449,852,021 358,637,980 2012/13 Actual Estimate GON Grant Loan % of Total 2014/15 Source Heading Revised Report No. 06 Page 1 / 4 Recurrent 398,951,195 13,542,828 21100 22100 22200 22300 22400 22500 Wages and salaries Rent & Services Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets Offices Materials & Services Consultancy and Other Services fee Program Expenses 104,912,461 3,349,320 3,913,248 3,662,893 6,203,099 22,617,676 9,272 3,774 14,413 26,050 1,315,273 4,600,940 21111 21112 21114 21119 21121 21122 21123 22111 22112 22121 22122 22211 22212 22213 22311 22312 22313 22314 22321 22411 22412 22511 22512 22521 22522 22529 Salary Local Allowances Field Allowance Other Allowance Clothing Fooding Medical Expense Water and Electricity Communication House Rent Other Rent Fuel and Oil Vehicles Operation & Maintenance Insurance General Office Expenses Feedds for Animals & Birds Books and Materials Fuel and Oil For Administrative Purposes Repair and Maintenance of Public Property Consultancy and Services Expenses Other Services fee Employee Training Skill Development and Awareness Training Program Production Materials/Services Program Expenses Other Program Expenses 84,740,933 1,247,203 70,219 3,929,041 2,839,683 11,888,954 196,428 1,270,461 628,430 1,365,047 85,382 2,265,317 1,391,694 256,237 3,281,354 78,783 32,950 157,336 112,470 3,960,919 2,242,180 979,140 4,065,088 683,016 11,825,279 422,913 6,850 0 1,012 1,410 0 0 0 904 1,086 733 1,051 8,330 5,682 401 25,565 0 0 485 0 1,275,544 39,729 193,813 606,803 23,755 1,816,673 101,357 Total Cash Direct Payment and Commodity Grant 385,408,367 104,903,189 3,345,546 3,898,835 3,636,843 4,887,826 18,016,736 84,734,083 1,247,203 69,207 3,927,631 2,839,683 11,888,954 196,428 1,269,557 627,344 1,364,314 84,331 2,256,987 1,386,012 255,836 3,255,789 78,783 32,950 156,851 112,470 2,685,375 2,202,451 785,327 3,458,285 659,261 10,008,606 321,556 Cash Total 348,766,638 36,641,729 104,725,790 3,265,904 3,750,933 3,485,793 2,819,673 11,518,503 177,399 79,642 147,902 151,050 2,068,153 6,498,233 84,598,944 1,244,467 49,915 3,908,006 2,839,474 11,888,954 196,030 1,261,091 596,029 1,328,225 80,559 2,171,696 1,325,302 253,935 3,113,687 78,783 28,130 153,218 111,975 828,811 1,990,862 645,491 1,511,721 520,601 7,281,873 299,264 135,139 2,736 19,292 19,625 209 0 398 8,466 31,315 36,089 3,772 85,291 60,710 1,901 142,102 0 4,820 3,633 495 1,856,564 211,589 139,836 1,946,564 138,660 2,726,733 22,292 GoN Foreign Cash Economic Heads and Expenditure Line Items Cash and Non Cash Expenditure by Economic Heads and Line Items Fiscal Year -2014/15 Annex 6 (Rs. in '000) Report No. 06 Page 2 / 4 22600 22700 22900 24100 24200 25100 25200 26200 26300 26400 Monitoring,Evaluation & Travelling Expenses Miscellaneous Recurrent Contingencies Interest on Foreign Foreign Interest on Internal Loan Subsidies to Public Corporations Subsidies to Private Enterprises Grant to Social Service Grant to Local body Grant to Social Service 2,168,726 851,980 20,339,288 4,846,931 18,507,642 1,765,552 849,610 633,674 34,003,459 111,712,470 48,879 9,475 1,150,000 0 0 245,000 277,400 0 1,562,941 4,274,262 22531 22611 22612 22613 22614 22711 22911 24111 24211 25111 25112 25211 25212 26211 26311 26312 26321 26322 26411 26412 26413 26421 Medicine Purchases Monitoring & Evaluation Expenses Travelling Expenses Travelling Expenses of VIPs & Delegations Other Travelling Expenses Miscellaneous Recurrent Contingencies Interest on Foreign Loan Interest on Internal Loan Operating Subsidy Non-Financial Corporations Capital Subsidy Non-Financial Corporations Operating Subsidies to Non-Financial Private Enterprises Capital Subsidies to Non-Financial Private Enterprises International Membership Fee& Assistance Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies Conditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies Unconditional Capital Grant to Local Bodies Conditional Capital Grant to Local Bodies Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Other Institutions & Individuals Unconditional Capital Grant to Government 4,642,240 1,220,707 880,473 55,004 12,542 851,980 20,339,288 4,846,931 18,507,642 777,458 988,094 205,460 644,150 633,674 2,910,591 12,637,600 8,216,925 10,238,343 2,670,822 75,097,825 3,835,010 7,341,818 1,858,539 39,124 9,755 0 0 9,475 1,150,000 0 0 245,000 0 0 277,400 0 52,250 1,210,691 0 300,000 238,868 647,346 30,450 672 Total Cash Direct Payment and Commodity Grant 2,119,847 842,505 19,189,288 4,846,931 18,507,642 1,520,552 572,210 633,674 32,440,518 107,438,208 2,783,701 1,181,583 870,718 55,004 12,542 842,505 19,189,288 4,846,931 18,507,642 532,458 988,094 205,460 366,750 633,674 2,858,341 11,426,909 8,216,925 9,938,343 2,431,954 74,450,479 3,804,560 7,341,146 Cash Total 1,821,373 815,933 19,138,615 4,846,931 18,507,642 1,358,552 85,572 633,674 24,557,624 91,023,638 298,474 26,572 50,673 0 0 162,000 486,638 0 7,882,894 16,414,570 1,259,553 959,555 794,272 55,004 12,542 815,933 19,138,615 4,846,931 18,507,642 370,458 988,094 3,822 81,750 633,674 2,815,591 7,033,167 7,076,925 7,631,941 2,419,554 66,835,449 3,485,127 7,341,146 1,524,148 222,028 76,446 0 0 26,572 50,673 0 0 162,000 0 201,638 285,000 0 42,750 4,393,742 1,140,000 2,306,402 12,400 7,615,030 319,433 0 GoN Foreign Cash Economic Heads and Expenditure Line Items Report No. 06 Page 3 / 4 Capital 116,755,042 19,998,279 27100 27200 27300 28100 28200 29100 29200 29300 29400 29500 Social Security Scholarships Retirement Benefits property Related Expenditure Refunds Land Building Furniture & Fittings Vehicles Plant & Machinery 14,693,965 2,545,065 41,004,747 9,389 360,000 2,786,607 14,568,876 629,829 1,736,530 6,413,777 0 5,149 0 0 0 0 472,646 7,631 29,460 805,238 26422 26423 27111 27112 27211 27311 27312 27313 27314 27315 28141 28212 28213 29111 29211 29221 29231 29311 29411 29511 Agencies,Committees & Boards Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Unconditional Capital Grant to Other Institutions & Individuals Conditional Social Security Subsidy Other Unconditional Social Assistance Scholarships Pensions and Disability Allowance Gratuity Accumulated Leave Medical Facility Deceased Staff Assistance Land Rent Judicial Refund Other Refund Land Acquisition Building Purchase Building Construction Capital Formation Building Furniture & Fixtures Vehicles Plant & Machinery 3,954,296 18,812,699 14,692,590 1,375 2,545,065 33,805,075 383,620 2,600,000 4,066,052 150,000 9,389 60,000 300,000 2,786,607 370,000 12,987,043 1,211,833 629,829 1,736,530 6,413,777 685,500 2,671,426 0 0 5,149 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 472,646 0 7,631 29,460 805,238 Total Cash Direct Payment and Commodity Grant 96,756,763 14,693,965 2,539,916 41,004,747 9,389 360,000 2,786,607 14,096,230 622,198 1,707,070 5,608,539 3,268,796 16,141,273 14,692,590 1,375 2,539,916 33,805,075 383,620 2,600,000 4,066,052 150,000 9,389 60,000 300,000 2,786,607 370,000 12,514,397 1,211,833 622,198 1,707,070 5,608,539 Cash Total 71,870,334 24,886,429 13,660,965 1,377,115 41,003,019 9,389 360,000 2,786,607 11,148,447 561,492 1,209,676 3,617,773 1,033,000 1,162,801 1,728 0 0 0 2,947,783 60,706 497,394 1,990,766 2,930,391 8,011,971 13,659,590 1,375 1,377,115 33,805,075 381,892 2,600,000 4,066,052 150,000 9,389 60,000 300,000 2,786,607 370,000 9,573,814 1,204,633 561,492 1,209,676 3,617,773 338,405 8,129,302 1,033,000 0 1,162,801 0 1,728 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,940,583 7,200 60,706 497,394 1,990,766 GoN Foreign Cash Economic Heads and Expenditure Line Items Report No. 06 Page 4 / 4 618,100,000Grand Total 54,423,910 Financing 102,393,763 20,882,803 29600 29700 29800 31100 31200 32100 32200 Civil Works Capital Research & Consultancy Capital Contingencies Net Internal Loan Net Investment External Net Borrowing Domestic Net Borrowing 79,347,638 8,152,656 3,119,129 35,678,571 13,893,608 20,276,684 32,544,900 16,143,301 2,450,203 89,800 14,962,695 5,920,108 0 0 29611 29621 29711 29712 29811 31111 31211 32111 32211 Civil Works Construction Capital Formation Capital Research & Consultancy Software Devloment and Purchase Capital Contingencies Internal Loan to Corporations Share InvestmentsCorporations External Amortization Domestic Amortization 76,061,133 3,286,505 7,554,575 598,081 3,119,129 35,678,571 13,893,608 20,276,684 32,544,900 15,426,379 716,922 2,190,231 259,972 89,800 14,962,695 5,920,108 0 0 Total Cash Direct Payment and Commodity Grant 563,676,090 81,510,960 63,204,337 5,702,453 3,029,329 20,715,876 7,973,500 20,276,684 32,544,900 60,634,754 2,569,583 5,364,344 338,109 3,029,329 20,715,876 7,973,500 20,276,684 32,544,900 Cash Total 495,185,306 68,490,784 74,548,334 6,962,626 46,096,498 3,450,512 2,999,329 14,753,250 6,973,500 20,276,684 32,544,900 17,107,839 2,251,941 30,000 5,962,626 1,000,000 0 0 43,705,915 2,390,583 3,203,985 246,527 2,999,329 14,753,250 6,973,500 20,276,684 32,544,900 16,928,839 179,000 2,160,359 91,582 30,000 5,962,626 1,000,000 0 0 GoN Foreign Cash Economic Heads and Expenditure Line Items Report No. 07 Page 1 / 4 2013/14 Estimate Source Grant Loan Fiscal Year 2014/15 2012/13 Actual Head of State Constitutional Body Ministry President Deputy President Constituent Assembly / Legislature Parliament Courts Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Public Service Commission Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Industry Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital 63,696 159,233 25,792 8,963 183,951 2,361 1,456,669 332,427 131,220 24,265 200,874 38,288 314,675 26,933 286,643 102,359 59,335 1,985 262,014 58,560 13,282 349 2,833,129 242,407 3,161,694 426,705 929,484 401,510 76,000 145,988 24,379 1,907 596,736 53,036 2,060,109 809,344 294,367 128,961 264,552 24,423 381,519 2,768 267,756 50,988 67,485 3,858 342,824 64,216 26,608 2,895 2,850,618 111,306 4,323,785 598,366 1,328,712 753,229 76,302 335,440 26,230 3,000 1,180,844 89,800 2,647,046 874,000 514,184 280,740 397,386 119,002 403,762 56,800 341,900 56,160 116,670 3,500 431,554 141,890 34,251 4,005 4,292,422 1,189,730 6,942,667 1,255,819 2,042,099 1,442,926 76,302 335,440 26,230 3,000 1,180,844 89,800 2,647,046 874,000 514,184 280,740 303,081 104,495 403,762 56,800 341,900 56,160 116,670 3,500 431,554 141,890 34,251 4,005 718,605 389,730 6,374,963 724,007 1,392,099 1,369,826 94,305 14,507 3,573,817 800,000 567,704 531,812 650,000 73,100 108,812 4,373,817 1,099,516 723,100 411,742 29,230 1,270,644 3,521,046 794,924 407,576 460,562 398,060 120,170 573,444 38,256 1,108,335 7,098,970 2,761,925 411,742 29,230 1,270,644 3,521,046 794,924 516,388 460,562 398,060 120,170 573,444 38,256 5,482,152 8,198,486 3,485,025 221,988 26,286 649,772 2,869,453 423,328 288,975 384,287 318,744 71,343 407,040 29,503 2,961,924 4,922,151 2,081,941 222,929 34,755 186,312 1,789,096 155,485 239,162 341,608 389,002 61,320 320,574 13,631 3,075,536 3,588,399 1,330,994 248,274 5,442,445 329,464,912 257,684 3,496,190 256,223,755 440,972 7,693,494 408,060,006 24,925,949 108,812 70,034,504 440,972 7,584,682 313,099,553 Administrative Expenditure Estimates (Including Financing) (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 7 2014/15 Heading GON Revised Report No. 07 Page 2 / 4 2013/14 Estimate Source Grant Loan 2012/13 Actual Ministry of Energy Ministry of Law, Justice, Constituent Assembly and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Commerce and Supply Ministry of Science Technology and Environment Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Defence MInistry of Urban Development Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Financing Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital 408,438 201,137 70,423 10,790 10,756,857 789,773 22,090,323 1,644,892 1,841,474 380,485 17,945 2,097,269 120,964 3,809,162 949,295 779,257 31,267 1,888,761 283,050 1,504,241 426,126 3,247,277 22,215,183 717,597 109,918 655,226 761 18,802,104 2,306,865 608,261 736,695 101,304 10,057 16,076,229 1,557,900 34,209,027 2,181,765 2,859,495 336,751 2,366,584 170,875 5,673,196 1,701,009 842,250 632,775 4,094,743 156,959 2,248,734 478,320 5,029,632 23,492,150 1,218,120 78,633 1,307,815 1,033 25,869,982 4,851,767 1,640,988 2,236,829 123,572 11,822 20,744,367 2,538,811 32,720,669 2,357,653 2,646,190 1,277,730 2,790,032 506,296 6,303,721 3,478,011 984,988 457,135 5,370,231 1,072,641 2,763,359 649,059 5,808,425 35,312,692 1,656,631 138,280 1,477,707 6,050 26,110,213 2,757,834 1,638,353 1,513,179 123,572 11,822 15,731,109 1,212,529 32,648,621 2,238,550 2,197,531 1,264,290 2,790,032 506,296 5,924,559 1,435,768 716,531 112,420 2,087,879 440,399 2,763,359 649,059 5,525,072 21,990,557 1,456,688 137,080 1,465,407 6,050 26,110,213 2,757,834 2,635 566,400 4,212,849 1,117,669 72,048 119,103 448,659 13,440 377,814 2,042,243 263,413 232,515 3,282,352 434,742 283,353 6,456,089 199,943 1,200 12,300 157,250 800,409 208,613 1,348 5,044 112,200 197,500 6,866,046 157,250 1,009,022 1,348 117,244 197,500 6,866,046 7,219,655 569,035 5,330,518 191,151 462,099 2,420,057 495,928 3,717,094 6,739,442 201,143 12,300 3,011,452 3,151,532 135,394 16,943,638 34,887,171 3,461,821 3,296,328 7,360,327 828,951 2,528,278 3,412,418 27,515,629 1,593,768 1,471,457 28,868,047 11,230,599 3,877,817 135,394 23,283,178 35,078,322 3,923,920 3,296,328 9,781,732 1,442,123 6,442,872 3,412,418 41,121,117 1,794,911 1,483,757 28,868,047 21,461,706 1,344,956 111,361 17,634,129 36,390,792 3,196,246 2,537,459 7,374,205 1,475,025 4,251,702 2,727,054 28,521,782 1,296,753 1,308,848 30,721,749 15,139,317 609,575 81,213 11,546,630 23,735,215 2,239,904 2,218,233 4,758,457 810,524 2,171,811 1,930,367 25,462,460 827,515 655,987 21,108,969 7,953,027 2014/15 Heading GON Revised Report No. 07 Page 3 / 4 2013/14 Estimate Source Grant Loan 2012/13 Actual MOF Financing & Debt Service Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Education Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Labour and Employment National Planning Commission Secreterate MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Financing Recurrent Financing Recurrent Financing Recurrent Financing 2,541,474 5,411,553 11,007,034 974,598 62,290,719 139,060 596,020 36,811 417,857 31,618 751,512 9,463,430 2,456,552 112,885 30,282,871 3,453,390 16,288,026 2,761,011 551,898 23,346 457,658 22,643 21,435,967 10,733,510 20,940,092 2,546,431 11,653,858 456,757 2,536,221 7,900,956 7,238,361 2,981,803 1,182,920 79,304,378 52,237 680,142 52,743 561,430 16,905 932,574 9,363,691 3,115,415 244,365 40,875,202 2,782,709 18,588,510 3,642,875 522,720 92,222 439,488 35,189 27,392,512 14,059,913 25,152,451 3,153,766 13,218,794 415,944 3,577,929 5,488,282 15,973,424 2,704,965 1,790,213 85,860,138 173,917 1,082,077 57,211 748,944 34,853 1,224,833 14,955,104 3,462,816 666,026 42,243,539 15,201,121 29,006,652 4,510,450 841,207 117,111 609,116 200,408 49,572,179 18,507,642 32,544,900 4,061,024 16,465,005 785,907 3,811,679 1,947,986 9,282,613 964,965 1,790,213 73,576,928 98,944 686,279 56,875 748,944 34,853 1,038,700 9,865,766 3,406,048 295,826 33,851,310 5,611,426 20,580,351 1,423,046 532,978 79,589 601,516 200,408 21,726,750 18,507,642 32,544,900 4,061,024 16,465,005 785,907 3,811,679 1,797,244 1,214,208 1,740,000 11,177,094 51,373 166,133 913,979 56,768 370,200 8,160,336 8,231,678 8,426,301 1,040,639 308,229 37,522 7,600 3,242,608 1,743,052 5,476,603 1,106,116 23,600 395,798 336 20,000 4,175,359 231,893 1,358,017 2,046,765 24,602,821 1,129,716 396,134 4,195,359 1,589,910 2,046,765 24,602,821 1,740,000 11,228,467 1,080,112 426,968 16,392,014 9,466,940 345,751 7,600 3,242,608 2,755,178 73,675,872 743,154 783,797 10,904,466 3,701,874 39,462,736 22,003,397 612,567 801,924 21,726,750 51,052,542 20,526,029 4,597,586 4,495,178 86,034,055 1,139,288 783,797 16,179,937 4,128,842 57,444,660 33,517,102 958,318 809,524 49,572,179 51,052,542 20,526,029 4,597,586 4,164,723 79,356,615 732,885 578,335 10,296,265 3,359,780 43,657,911 22,231,385 614,942 474,677 27,392,512 39,212,364 16,372,560 3,993,873 11,981,632 62,429,779 632,831 449,475 10,214,942 2,569,437 33,736,261 19,049,037 575,244 480,301 21,435,967 31,673,602 14,200,289 2,992,978 86,971,309 70,302,836 125,748,336 24,602,821 3,242,608 97,902,907 2014/15 Heading GON Revised Report No. 07 Page 4 / 4 2013/14 Estimate Source Grant Loan 2012/13 Actual MOF Miscellaneous MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous Recurrent Recurrent Capital 25,962,349 1,523,937 871,229 26,307,369 1,389,647 28,065 54,375,643 17,360,000 4,421,549 54,375,643 17,360,000 4,421,549 54,375,643 21,781,549 54,375,643 21,781,549 26,307,369 1,417,712 25,962,349 2,395,166 27,725,081 28,357,515 76,157,192 76,157,192 49,528,770Total Expenditure 73,385,924 495,185,306 618,100,000 449,852,021 358,637,980 2014/15 Heading GON Revised Report No. 08 Page 1 / 5 2013/14 Estimate GON Grant Loan Expenditure by Economic Heads and LineItem(Including Financing) 2012/13 (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 8 Recurrent Expenditure Compensation of employees Grants Interest ,Services and Bank Commission Wages and salaries Grant to Local body Grant to Social Service Grant to Social Service 104,912,461 34,003,459 633,674 111,712,470 104,725,790 24,557,624 633,674 91,023,638 174,234 7,326,949 19,835,891 12,437 2,118,886 852,941 12,437 2,971,827 174,234 27,162,840 104,725,790 116,214,936 23,354,573 104,912,461 146,349,603 23,354,573 398,951,195 4,303,660 45,880,897 348,766,638 Salary Local Allowances Dearness Allowance Field Allowance Other Allowance Clothing Fooding Medical Expense Unconditional Capital Grant to Local Bodies Conditional Capital Grant to Local Bodies Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies Conditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies International Membership Fee& Assistance Unconditional Capital Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Unconditional Capital Grant to Other Institutions & Individuals Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Other Institutions & Individuals 84,740,933 1,247,203 70,219 3,929,041 2,839,683 11,888,954 196,428 8,216,925 10,238,343 2,910,591 12,637,600 633,674 7,341,818 3,954,296 18,812,699 2,670,822 75,097,825 3,835,010 84,598,944 1,244,467 49,915 3,908,006 2,839,474 11,888,954 196,030 7,076,925 7,631,941 2,815,591 7,033,167 633,674 7,341,146 2,930,391 8,011,971 2,419,554 66,835,449 3,485,127 131,873 2,563 20,304 19,230 141 123 1,140,000 975,756 42,750 5,168,443 672 1,022,750 10,272,668 241,268 7,948,650 349,883 10,116 173 1,805 68 275 1,630,646 52,250 435,990 1,155 528,060 10,000 313,726 Wages and salaries in cash Wages and salaries in kind Capital Grant to Local Body Recurrent Grant to Local Body International Membership Fee& Capital Grant Recurrent Grant 89,987,396 14,925,065 18,455,268 15,548,191 633,674 30,108,813 81,603,657 89,801,332 14,924,458 14,708,866 9,848,758 633,674 18,283,508 72,740,130 173,970 264 2,115,756 5,211,193 11,296,090 8,539,801 12,094 343 1,630,646 488,240 529,215 323,726 21000 26000 24000 21100 26300 26200 26400 21110 21120 26320 26310 26210 26420 26410 21111 21112 21113 21114 21119 21121 21122 21123 26321 26322 26311 26312 26211 26421 26422 26423 26411 26412 26413 247,455,472 Actual 66,046,069 23,299,644 101 79,190,142 84,260,373 36,043,992 310,803 105,974,083 84,260,373 142,328,878 17,547,715 66,046,069 102,489,887 13,736,698 316,640,079 48,744,618 236,889 5,969 3,170,740 1,891,038 9,925,936 2,070,879 6,414,874 8,616,910 3,888,649 4,379,211 101 77,832 401,774 15,952,748 33,076,229 29,365,175 316,384 60,751,721 991,010 3,045,586 73,761 3,025,329 1,954,987 10,973,139 3,444,840 8,892,972 15,609,422 7,053,504 4,488,094 310,803 4,160,021 2,233,028 23,692,020 40,788,592 33,724,594 1,375,828 52,158,216 13,887,853 15,031,784 8,267,860 101 16,432,354 62,757,788 67,887,407 16,372,966 24,502,394 11,541,598 310,803 30,085,069 75,889,014 2014/15Heading Source Fiscal Year 2014/15 Revised Report No. 08 Page 2 / 5 2013/14 Estimate GON Grant Loan 2012/13 Other Expenditure Social Security Subsidies Use of goods and services Interest on Foreign Foreign Interest on Internal Loan Refunds property Related Expenditure Retirement Benefits Scholarships Social Security Subsidies to Private Enterprises Subsidies to Public Corporations 4,846,931 18,507,642 360,000 9,389 41,004,747 2,545,065 14,693,965 849,610 1,765,552 4,846,931 18,507,642 360,000 9,389 41,003,019 1,377,115 13,660,965 85,572 1,358,552 536 1,030,550 1,033,000 764,038 407,000 1,192 137,400 138,592 1,180,804 2,064,086 1,171,038 15,308,699 369,389 56,041,099 1,444,124 46,616,727 369,389 58,243,777 2,615,162 63,106,230 Interest on Foreign Loan Interest on Internal Loan Revenue Refund Judicial Refund Other Refund Land Rent Pensions and Disability Allowance Gratuity Accumulated Leave Medical Facility Deceased Staff Assistance Scholarships Conditional Social Security Subsidy Other Unconditional Social Assistance Operating Subsidies to NonFinancial Private Enterprises Capital Subsidies to NonFinancial Private Enterprises Operating Subsidy NonFinancial Corporations Capital Subsidy Non-Financial Corporations 4,846,931 18,507,642 60,000 300,000 9,389 33,805,075 383,620 2,600,000 4,066,052 150,000 2,545,065 14,692,590 1,375 205,460 644,150 777,458 988,094 4,846,931 18,507,642 60,000 300,000 9,389 33,805,075 381,892 2,600,000 4,066,052 150,000 1,377,115 13,659,590 1,375 3,822 81,750 370,458 988,094 536 1,030,550 1,033,000 201,638 562,400 407,000 1,192 137,400 Interest on Foreign Foreign Interest on Internal Loan Refunds Land Rent Retirement Benefits Scholarships Social Security Subsidies to Non-Financial Ente Operating Subsidy Non-Financ 4,846,931 18,507,642 360,000 9,389 41,004,747 2,545,065 14,693,965 849,610 1,765,552 4,846,931 18,507,642 360,000 9,389 41,003,019 1,377,115 13,660,965 85,572 1,358,552 536 1,030,550 1,033,000 764,038 407,000 1,192 137,400 28000 27000 25000 22000 24100 24200 28200 28100 27300 27200 27100 25200 25100 24110 24210 28210 28140 27310 27210 27110 25210 25110 24111 24211 28211 28212 28213 28141 27311 27312 27313 27314 27315 27211 27111 27112 25211 25212 25111 25112 Actual 3,003,188 10,733,510 81,583 44,381 23,999,930 1,914,181 11,630,140 3,241,646 985,693 3,487,802 14,059,913 281,513 9,881 27,989,721 1,792,679 12,266,329 110,503 1,043,909 291,394 42,048,729 1,154,412 29,008,578 125,964 37,544,251 4,227,339 23,285,264 3,003,188 10,733,510 2,653 78,930 44,381 22,497,540 113,214 574,472 814,658 46 1,914,181 11,630,140 785 3,240,861 823,443 162,250 3,487,802 14,059,913 6,307 275,206 9,881 25,823,356 213,616 850,405 1,102,299 45 1,792,679 12,266,329 603 109,900 870,950 172,959 3,003,188 10,733,510 81,583 44,381 23,999,930 1,914,181 11,630,140 3,241,646 985,693 3,487,802 14,059,913 281,513 9,881 27,989,721 1,792,679 12,266,329 110,503 1,043,909 2014/15Heading Source Revised Report No. 08 Page 3 / 5 2013/14 Estimate GON Grant Loan 2012/13 Consultancy and Other Services fe Miscellaneous Monitoring,Evaluation & Travelling Offices Materials & Services Operation & Maintenance of Capita Program Expenses Recurrent Contingencies 6,203,099 851,980 2,168,726 3,662,893 3,913,248 22,617,676 20,339,288 2,819,673 815,933 1,821,373 3,485,793 3,750,933 11,518,503 19,138,615 3,152,946 31,444 328,433 158,619 142,357 10,231,502 1,197,000 230,480 4,603 18,920 18,481 19,958 867,671 3,673 Consultancy and Services Expenses Other Services fee Miscellaneous Monitoring & Evaluation Expenses Travelling Expenses Travelling Expenses of VIPs & Delegations Other Travelling Expenses General Office Expenses Feedds for Animals & Birds Books and Materials Fuel and Oil For Administrative Purposes Repair and Maintenance of Public Property Fuel and Oil Vehicles Operation & Maintenance Insurance Employee Training Skill Development and Awareness Training Program Medicine Purchases Production Materials/Services Program Expenses Other Program Expenses Recurrent Contingencies 3,960,919 2,242,180 851,980 1,220,707 880,473 55,004 12,542 3,281,354 78,783 32,950 157,336 112,470 2,265,317 1,391,694 256,237 979,140 4,065,088 4,642,240 683,016 11,825,279 422,913 20,339,288 828,811 1,990,862 815,933 959,555 794,272 55,004 12,542 3,113,687 78,783 28,130 153,218 111,975 2,171,696 1,325,302 253,935 645,491 1,511,721 1,259,553 520,601 7,281,873 299,264 19,138,615 2,906,417 246,529 31,444 247,229 81,204 150,578 4,770 2,988 283 82,069 58,524 1,764 329,743 1,868,571 3,382,687 95,744 4,440,694 114,063 1,197,000 225,691 4,789 4,603 13,923 4,997 17,089 50 1,130 212 11,552 7,868 538 3,906 684,796 66,671 102,712 9,586 3,673 Consultancy and Other Services Miscellaneous Monitoring,Evaluation & Travelli Office Materials & Services Repair and Maintenance of Publ Operation & Maintenance of Cap Consultancy and Other Services Medicines Production Materials and Progra Recurrent Contingencies 6,203,099 851,980 2,168,726 3,550,423 112,470 3,913,248 5,044,228 4,642,240 12,931,208 20,339,288 2,819,673 815,933 1,821,373 3,373,818 111,975 3,750,933 2,157,212 1,259,553 8,101,738 19,138,615 3,152,946 31,444 328,433 158,336 283 142,357 2,198,314 3,382,687 4,650,501 1,197,000 230,480 4,603 18,920 18,269 212 19,958 688,702 178,969 3,673 22400 22700 22600 22300 22200 22500 22900 22410 22710 22610 22310 22320 22210 22510 22530 22520 22910 22411 22412 22711 22611 22612 22613 22614 22311 22312 22313 22314 22321 22211 22212 22213 22511 22512 22531 22521 22522 22529 22911 Actual 2,289,056 1,815,982 1,765,673 2,540,180 2,400,904 10,194,816 3,292,624 968,127 2,178,391 2,900,086 3,064,178 13,395,159 2,062,328 226,728 1,815,982 1,194,232 543,160 25,291 2,990 2,439,690 985 9,428 38,760 51,317 1,461,937 905,070 33,897 266,192 244,733 3,155,950 216,743 6,311,198 2,449,545 843,079 968,127 999,565 1,136,776 35,472 6,578 2,645,745 66,504 10,088 104,150 73,599 1,870,560 1,074,998 118,620 529,060 5,822,261 1,818,781 429,126 4,795,931 2,289,056 1,815,982 1,765,673 2,488,863 51,317 2,400,904 510,925 3,155,950 6,527,941 3,292,624 968,127 2,178,391 2,826,487 73,599 3,064,178 6,351,321 1,818,781 5,225,057 2014/15Heading Source Revised Report No. 08 Page 4 / 5 2013/14 Estimate GON Grant Loan 2012/13 Capital Expenditure Capital Expenditure Rent & Services Building Capital Contingencies Capital Research & Consultancy Civil Works Furniture & Fittings Land Plant & Machinery Vehicles 3,349,320 14,568,876 3,119,129 8,152,656 79,347,638 629,829 2,786,607 6,413,777 1,736,530 3,265,904 11,148,447 2,999,329 3,450,512 46,096,498 561,492 2,786,607 3,617,773 1,209,676 66,398 1,310,277 119,800 3,761,468 16,215,645 61,357 2,338,292 455,580 17,018 2,110,152 940,676 17,035,495 6,980 457,712 71,274 20,622,289 24,262,419 71,870,334 116,755,042 116,755,042 20,622,289 24,262,419 71,870,334 House Rent Other Rent Water and Electricity Communication Building Purchase Building Construction Capital Formation Building Capital Contingencies Capital Research & Consultancy Software Devloment and Purchase Capital Formation Civil Works Construction Furniture & Fixtures Land Acquisition Plant & Machinery Vehicles 1,365,047 85,382 1,270,461 628,430 370,000 12,987,043 1,211,833 3,119,129 7,554,575 598,081 3,286,505 76,061,133 629,829 2,786,607 6,413,777 1,736,530 1,328,225 80,559 1,261,091 596,029 370,000 9,573,814 1,204,633 2,999,329 3,203,985 246,527 2,390,583 43,705,915 561,492 2,786,607 3,617,773 1,209,676 27,377 3,768 7,065 28,188 1,303,077 7,200 119,800 3,423,721 337,747 885,922 15,329,723 61,357 2,338,292 455,580 9,445 1,055 2,305 4,213 2,110,152 926,869 13,807 10,000 17,025,495 6,980 457,712 71,274 Rent Utilities Building Purchase Building Construction Capital Formation Building Capital Contingencies Capital Research & Consultanc Capital Formation Civil Works Civil Works Construction Furniture & Fittings Land Acquisition Plant & Machinery Vehicles 1,450,429 1,898,891 370,000 12,987,043 1,211,833 3,119,129 8,152,656 3,286,505 76,061,133 629,829 2,786,607 6,413,777 1,736,530 1,408,784 1,857,120 370,000 9,573,814 1,204,633 2,999,329 3,450,512 2,390,583 43,705,915 561,492 2,786,607 3,617,773 1,209,676 31,145 35,253 1,303,077 7,200 119,800 3,761,468 885,922 15,329,723 61,357 2,338,292 455,580 10,500 6,518 2,110,152 940,676 10,000 17,025,495 6,980 457,712 71,274 29000 22100 29200 29800 29700 29600 29300 29100 29500 29400 22120 22110 29210 29220 29230 29810 29710 29620 29610 29310 29110 29510 29410 22121 22122 22111 22112 29211 29221 29231 29811 29711 29712 29621 29611 29311 29111 29511 29411 54,598,425 Actual 2,278,653 6,494,410 2,090,681 39,050,395 381,364 2,798,269 2,610,188 1,173,118 3,210,013 8,038,898 2,643,128 43,417,660 414,150 1,450,141 3,815,910 4,090,369 63,870,256 54,598,425 63,870,256 955,547 119,659 806,158 397,289 6,405,114 89,296 2,081,996 8,685 583,913 38,466,482 381,364 2,798,269 2,610,188 1,173,118 1,104,751 318,047 1,376,965 410,250 124,835 7,717,150 196,913 2,589,583 53,545 1,734,233 41,683,427 414,150 1,450,141 3,815,910 4,090,369 1,075,206 1,203,447 6,405,114 89,296 2,090,681 583,913 38,466,482 381,364 2,798,269 2,610,188 1,173,118 1,422,798 1,787,215 124,835 7,717,150 196,913 2,643,128 1,734,233 41,683,427 414,150 1,450,141 3,815,910 4,090,369 2014/15Heading Source Revised Report No. 08 Page 5 / 5 2013/14 Estimate GON Grant Loan 2012/13 Financing Fiscal Policy (L-R) Liquidity Net Internal Loan Net Investment Domestic Net Borrowing External Net Borrowing 35,678,571 13,893,608 32,544,900 20,276,684 14,753,250 6,973,500 32,544,900 20,276,684 732,500 2,510,108 20,192,821 4,410,000 24,602,821 3,242,608 21,726,750 52,821,584 49,572,179 52,821,584 102,393,763 24,602,821 3,242,608 74,548,334 49,528,770Total Expenditure 73,385,924 495,185,306 618,100,000 Internal Loan to Corporations Share InvestmentsCorporations Foreign Share Investments Domestic Amortization External Amortization 35,678,571 13,893,608 32,544,900 20,276,684 14,753,250 6,973,500 32,544,900 20,276,684 732,500 2,510,108 20,192,821 4,410,000 Internal Loan Domestic Share Investments Foreign Share Investments Domestic Amortization External Amortizations 35,678,571 13,893,608 32,544,900 20,276,684 14,753,250 6,973,500 32,544,900 20,276,684 732,500 2,510,108 20,192,821 4,410,000 31000 32000 31100 31200 32200 32100 31110 31210 31220 32210 32110 31111 31211 31221 32211 32111 56,584,083 Actual 12,552,099 8,901,813 20,940,092 14,190,079 18,555,671 9,717,207 25,152,451 15,916,357 28,272,878 41,068,808 21,453,912 35,130,171 69,341,686 449,852,021 358,637,980 12,552,099 5,356,545 3,545,268 20,940,092 14,190,079 18,555,671 9,678,479 38,728 25,152,451 15,916,357 12,552,099 5,356,545 3,545,268 20,940,092 14,190,079 18,555,671 9,678,479 38,728 25,152,451 15,916,357 2014/15Heading Source Revised Report No. 9 Page 1 / 2 Development 2012/13 Actual 2013/14 Compensation of employees Use of goods and services Subsidies Grants Social Security Other Expenditure Capital Expenditure Wages and salaries Rent & Services Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets Offices Materials & Services Consultancy and Other Services fee Program Expenses Monitoring,Evaluation & Travelling Expenses Miscellaneous Recurrent Contingencies Subsidies to Public Corporations Subsidies to Private Enterprises Grant to Social Service Grant to Local body Grant to Social Service Social Security Scholarships Retirement Benefits property Related Expenditure Refunds Land Building Furniture & Fittings Vehicles Plant & Machinery Civil Works Capital Research & Consultancy Capital Contingencies 2,987,949 299,113 421,726 640,479 1,536,133 8,731,156 624,452 76,416 526,739 2,819,243 21,935,854 36,173,790 902,371 1,756,360 3,698,313 2,607,017 4,348,316 116,921 339,178 1,086,970 38,478,532 2,050,197 3,763,726 318,539 487,539 559,693 2,190,899 11,484,568 636,236 82,349 629,664 90,903 1,000 34,622,572 52,366,757 1,166,159 1,714,437 11,687 1,209,596 5,223,992 166,437 881,900 1,691,596 42,898,256 2,236,323 6,300,559 515,327 665,914 797,253 4,679,002 20,071,325 914,742 132,158 2,317,906 1,303,052 849,310 3,434 32,820,640 56,789,145 1,467,900 2,349,142 119,395 169 10,000 2,051,607 9,846,383 286,642 663,495 4,018,813 78,189,496 7,803,981 2,714,050 6,113,888 431,911 503,599 625,185 1,404,795 9,163,675 567,841 96,111 1,117,233 1,058,052 85,272 3,434 23,374,805 39,614,130 434,900 1,181,192 117,667 169 10,000 2,051,607 6,425,954 219,105 136,641 1,247,582 44,938,356 3,101,837 2,594,250 174,234 66,398 142,357 153,587 3,043,727 10,039,979 327,981 31,444 1,197,000 245,000 764,038 7,326,949 16,322,074 1,033,000 1,030,550 536 1,310,277 60,557 455,580 2,313,519 16,215,645 3,761,468 119,800 12,437 17,018 19,958 18,481 230,480 867,671 18,920 4,603 3,673 2,118,886 852,941 137,400 1,192 2,110,152 6,980 71,274 457,712 17,035,495 940,676 12,437 1,180,804 2,971,827 138,592 20,622,289 174,234 15,002,473 1,009,038 23,649,023 2,064,086 24,236,846 6,113,888 13,910,350 1,143,324 62,992,369 1,733,759 10,169 60,715,332 6,300,559 30,093,627 2,152,362 89,613,219 3,936,437 10,169 105,574,467 3,763,726 15,759,823 720,567 86,990,329 2,892,283 54,308,100 2,987,949 12,329,475 3,345,982 58,109,644 6,357,044 49,027,131 237,680,840 132,157,225 164,434,828 24,925,949 66,135,700 146,619,191Total Estimate GON Grant Loan Fiscal Year 2014/15 LineItem wise Estimates (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 9 2014/15 SourceHeading Revised Report No. 9 Page 2 / 2 Regular 2012/13 Actual 2013/14 Compensation of employees Use of goods and services Interest ,Services and Bank Commission Subsidies Grants Social Security Other Expenditure Capital Expenditure Wages and salaries Rent & Services Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets Offices Materials & Services Consultancy and Other Services fee Program Expenses Monitoring,Evaluation & Travelling Expenses Miscellaneous Recurrent Contingencies Interest on Foreign Foreign Interest on Internal Loan Subsidies to Public Corporations Subsidies to Private Enterprises Grant to Social Service Grant to Local body Grant to Social Service Social Security Scholarships Retirement Benefits property Related Expenditure Refunds Land Building Furniture & Fittings Vehicles Plant & Machinery Civil Works Capital Research & Consultancy Capital Contingencies 63,058,120 1,979,540 1,979,178 1,899,701 752,923 1,463,660 1,141,221 1,739,566 3,003,188 10,733,510 458,954 422,403 101 1,363,790 43,016,352 10,727,769 157,821 20,301,617 44,381 81,583 191,252 2,146,094 264,443 833,940 1,523,218 571,863 40,484 80,496,647 2,891,474 2,576,639 2,340,393 1,101,725 1,910,591 1,542,155 885,778 3,487,802 14,059,913 414,245 19,600 309,803 1,421,420 53,607,326 11,100,170 78,242 27,978,034 9,881 281,513 240,545 2,814,906 247,713 3,208,469 2,124,314 519,404 406,805 98,611,902 2,833,993 3,247,334 2,865,640 1,524,097 2,546,351 1,253,984 719,822 18,021,382 4,846,931 18,507,642 462,500 300 630,240 1,182,819 54,923,325 13,226,065 195,923 40,885,352 9,220 350,000 735,000 4,722,493 343,187 1,073,035 2,394,964 1,158,142 348,675 405,079 98,611,902 2,833,993 3,247,334 2,860,608 1,414,878 2,354,828 1,253,532 719,822 18,021,382 4,846,931 18,507,642 300,500 300 630,240 1,182,819 51,409,508 13,226,065 195,923 40,885,352 9,220 350,000 735,000 4,722,493 342,387 1,073,035 2,370,191 1,158,142 348,675 405,079 5,032 109,219 191,523 452 162,000 3,513,817 800 24,773 306,226 162,000 3,513,817 25,573 98,611,902 32,706,377 23,354,573 300,800 53,222,567 54,307,340 359,220 11,155,002 98,611,902 33,012,603 23,354,573 462,800 56,736,384 54,307,340 359,220 11,180,575 80,496,647 13,248,755 17,547,715 433,845 55,338,549 39,156,446 291,394 9,562,156 63,058,120 10,955,789 13,736,698 881,357 44,380,243 31,187,207 125,964 5,571,294 278,025,397 169,896,672 216,075,507 4,007,616 274,017,781Total Estimate GON Grant Loan 2014/15 SourceHeading Revised Report No. 10 Page 1 / 2 Head of State Constitutional Body Ministry MOF Financing & Debt Service President Deputy President Constituent Assembly / Legislature Parliament Courts Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Public Service Commission Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Law, Justice, Constituent Assembly and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Commerce and Supply Ministry of Science Technology and Environment Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Defence MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Education Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Labour and Employment National Planning Commission Secreterate MOF Policy Financing 411,742 29,230 1,270,644 3,521,046 794,924 516,388 460,562 398,060 120,170 573,444 38,256 5,482,152 8,198,486 3,485,025 3,877,817 135,394 23,283,178 35,078,322 3,923,920 3,296,328 9,781,732 1,442,123 6,442,872 3,412,418 41,121,117 1,794,911 1,483,757 28,868,047 21,461,706 4,495,178 86,034,055 1,139,288 783,797 16,179,937 4,128,842 57,444,660 33,517,102 958,318 809,524 49,572,179 411,742 29,230 1,270,644 2,636,781 429,984 289,853 388,412 333,427 120,170 423,006 38,256 4,426,742 4,623,489 989,219 299,673 135,394 635,596 34,842,059 651,001 3,296,328 4,362,879 719,801 326,910 1,790,442 1,194,133 162,265 1,245,657 28,868,047 984,196 130,260 58,926,247 403,298 546,997 713,243 3,486,874 13,108,028 8,654,565 270,833 507,951 884,265 364,940 226,535 72,150 64,633 150,438 1,055,410 3,574,997 2,079,590 3,578,144 18,432,612 236,263 3,272,919 4,617,413 722,322 6,115,962 1,621,976 39,926,984 617,522 238,100 16,048,248 3,683,863 8,937,021 230,386 236,800 15,466,694 641,968 1,087,262 15,825,600 687,485 301,573 49,572,179 416,216 4,214,970 801,440 1,015,124 4,429,262 681,055 18,170,787 505,604 43,249,370 9,036,937 884,265 364,940 226,535 72,150 64,633 150,438 1,055,410 3,574,997 2,495,806 3,578,144 22,647,582 236,263 3,272,919 5,418,853 722,322 6,115,962 1,621,976 39,926,984 1,632,646 238,100 20,477,510 4,364,918 27,107,808 735,990 236,800 15,466,694 641,968 44,336,632 24,862,537 687,485 301,573 49,572,179 1,762,961 231,757,879 49,572,179 82,520,765 1,762,961 149,237,114 49,572,179 440,972 5,930,533 176,302,127 76,176,157 440,972 7,693,494 408,060,006 125,748,336 Estimate Regular Central District Total DevelopmentHead Ministry wise Regular & Development Expenditure Budget ( Including Financing) 2014/15 (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 10 Fiscal Year Report No. 10 Page 2 / 2 MOF Financing & Debt Service MOF Miscellaneous MOF Domestic Debt Service MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous 51,052,542 20,526,029 4,597,586 54,375,643 21,781,549 51,052,542 20,526,029 4,597,586 54,375,643 17,621,549 4,160,000 4,160,000 4,160,000 4,160,000 71,997,192 76,157,192 204,732,254 618,100,000 287,253,019 82,520,765 330,846,981Total Estimate Regular Central District Total DevelopmentHead Report No. 11 Page 1 / 7 1.1 1.3 1.5 1.6 Executive and legislative organs, financial, fiscal affairs and external affai General services R&D General public services General public services n.e.c. 101 102 202 206 208 301 305 326 347 352 356 365 501 503 504 601 602 210 305 314 325 326 347 356 391 305 President Deputy President Constituent Assembly / Legislature Parliament Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Foreign Affairs MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous Public Service Commission Ministry of Finance Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of General Administration National Planning Commission Secreterate Ministry of Finance GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICES01 70,903,067 10,706,611 16,765 3,484,798 103,741,801 Function-wise Prioritization of Budget (Including Financing) 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 500 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 100,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 411,742 29,230 1,270,644 794,924 516,388 4,021,176 6,465,481 2,847,949 76,594 155,773 55,265 872,694 3,200,000 20,526,029 4,597,586 51,125,643 21,781,549 460,562 609,486 9,338,410 263,297 448,379 597,073 728,532 809,524 16,840 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10,027 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 15,850,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10,000 11,000 0 0 0 0 3,200,000 0 0 0 3,331,549 0 0 0 15,500 50,100 0 0 5,120 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 997,569 19,600 0 0 55,265 57,334 0 0 0 0 930,000 0 0 0 247,797 387,339 0 469,081 85,314 0 335,440 3,000 89,800 280,740 119,002 38,415 674,369 444,406 5,510 1,790 0 13,600 0 16,465,005 3,811,679 0 990,000 56,800 560,268 358,687 0 290 82,215 34,853 195,288 75 76,302 26,230 1,180,844 514,184 397,386 3,982,761 4,783,543 2,362,416 71,084 153,983 0 801,760 0 4,061,024 785,907 51,125,643 580,000 403,762 49,218 8,979,723 0 10,650 514,858 224,598 523,802 16,765 Recurrent Total 6,552,549 70,720 0 500,000 2,059,768 1,189,531 0 0 6,552,549 70,720 0 500,000 15,860,027 0 0 64,576 100,500 0 0 20,000 118,748,667 13,255,263 16,840 4,451,222 57,863,692 18,104,299 9,123,269 15,924,603 120,500 204,878,164 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent RecurrentCapital and Financing Capital and Financing Annex 11 (Rs. in '000')Fiscal Year 2014/15 Report No. 11 Page 2 / 7 1.7 1.8 2.1 2.2 2.5 3.1 3.2 3.3 Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of government Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services Fire-protection services Law courts 212 214 314 337 349 365 501 501 502 365 307 345 314 501 347 314 314 204 216 218 311 Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Ministry of Home Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Industry Ministry of Defence Ministry of Home MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Home Ministry of Home Courts Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Ministry of Law, Justice, Constituent Assembly and Parliamentary Affairs DEFENCE PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY 02 03 18,507,642 122,918 25,734,189 47,000 0 20,406,058 5,811 3,113,888 25,781,189 29,311,720 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 0 0 0 0 20,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 398,060 120,170 60,699 108,341 500,000 3,085,576 178,376 2,000,000 51,052,542 15,353,630 350,000 28,371,098 77,000 2,521,790 38,740 21,327,419 6,011 3,521,046 573,444 38,256 135,394 0 0 0 0 0 64,576 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 500,000 0 0 2,000,000 0 0 0 0 0 2,521,790 31,700 0 0 0 0 0 1,478 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 14,855,000 0 29,075 0 0 7,040 0 0 104,572 0 0 17,963 56,160 3,500 46,445 97,367 0 0 178,376 0 32,544,900 375,712 200,000 2,757,834 30,000 0 0 921,361 200 874,000 141,890 4,005 10,344 341,900 116,670 14,254 10,974 0 3,001,000 0 0 18,507,642 122,918 150,000 25,584,189 47,000 0 0 20,406,058 5,811 2,542,474 431,554 34,251 105,609 Recurrent Total 2,000,000 0 0 2,521,790 31,700 0 0 1,497 0 14,855,000 29,075 0 7,040 0 0 132,064 2,000,000 0 0 2,521,790 31,700 0 0 1,497 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 53,052,542 15,353,630 28,721,098 2,598,790 38,740 21,327,419 6,011 4,277,688 2,987,834 5,014,743 36,115 132,064 2,553,490 1,497 0 8,664 0 50 31,358,628 34,468,738 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent RecurrentCapital and Financing Capital and Financing Report No. 11 Page 3 / 7 3.4 3.6 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting Fuel and energy Mining, manufacturing and construction 371 314 301 314 349 301 330 352 365 371 305 312 329 336 352 357 365 501 307 308 331 501 307 337 Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Home Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Commerce and Supply Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Finance Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Science Technology and Environment MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport ECONOMIC AFFAIRS04 865,325 4,920,638 6,544,297 28,924,401 4,089,374 63,899 51,276,563 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 0 0 50 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 24,150 0 0 20,932 20,127 0 0 0 0 9,548 1,016,798 1,273,633 2,572,011 3,995,178 133,985 1,305,623 505,604 9,626,428 822,830 1,000,000 23,235,746 9,496,243 3,412,418 477,911 13,972,307 1,373,305 1,000,000 40,439 2,475,686 3,912,575 30,793,818 80,194 2,600,000 0 0 0 8,664 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 57,562 0 0 12,238 500 0 0 0 0 19 0 0 0 0 0 3,410 0 29,473 37,522 0 102,741 335,716 10,340 0 753,321 0 0 450 336,600 0 0 0 0 9,529 0 0 0 0 0 74,162 0 2,626,074 316,172 0 848,919 2,294,969 81,004 60,000 76,449 0 0 6,819 21,996 0 0 0 0 0 151,473 1,040,140 581,117 1,290,213 108,910 453,725 400 2,138,515 61,810 0 2,429,795 2,975,317 638,719 55,021 12,018,444 1,281,062 1,000,000 0 1,878,602 41,062 30,793,818 16,295 2,600,000 0 865,325 233,493 1,982,180 2,704,965 25,075 774,326 505,204 4,832,366 407,326 1,000,000 19,854,291 3,890,241 2,682,355 362,890 1,042,381 92,243 0 0 217,861 3,871,513 0 63,899 0 Recurrent Total 0 0 70,405 1,202,118 337,050 0 0 0 3,016,408 3,361,341 28,815 0 0 0 70,405 1,202,118 337,050 0 0 8,664 0 57,562 12,738 0 0 50 0 24,150 41,059 0 1,016,798 7,840,822 12,394,470 53,967,930 37,222,518 2,680,194 96,856,990 7,226,837 12,275,487 2,095,910 466,559 170,198,346 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent RecurrentCapital and Financing Capital and Financing Report No. 11 Page 4 / 7 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 5.1 5.2 5.4 Transport Communication Other industries R&D Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. Waste management Waste water management Protection of biodiversity and landscape 325 337 347 365 501 331 358 501 307 312 325 329 501 308 357 305 501 347 501 347 357 329 Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Science Technology and Environment Ministry of Information and Communications MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Energy Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION05 6,072,731 2,925,063 2,521,949 39,277 95,572 48,476 136,664 0 3,770,250 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 20,000 297,050 0 0 82,800 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,500 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 500,000 38,412,776 757,291 9,414,232 2,070,000 447,074 3,568,622 240,000 3,014,392 47,432 1,287,550 37,894 1,989,695 1,402,131 307,466 106,679 330,000 173,076 2,507,000 174,195 1,900,164 17,500 0 0 3,720 600,000 0 13,434 0 0 0 0 7,825 0 0 1,400,631 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6,608,507 68,720 1,919,700 0 5,650 71,152 0 2,490 0 0 0 1,989,695 0 0 0 0 0 0 45,060 0 2,200 0 232,781 3,670 1,948 0 177,258 348,660 0 37,616 0 18,340 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,635 0 15,300 450,000 25,986,818 144,500 6,674,154 2,070,000 94,155 297,524 240,000 1,202,759 6,275 569,380 20,634 0 0 268,189 11,107 330,000 124,600 2,507,000 0 1,891,000 0 50,000 5,564,670 239,631 218,430 0 73,777 2,851,286 0 1,771,527 41,157 692,005 17,260 0 0 39,277 95,572 0 48,476 0 127,500 9,164 0 Recurrent Total 8,596,927 76,802 1,992,185 0 0 0 45,060 2,200 238,399 525,918 55,956 0 0 0 1,635 15,300 8,596,927 76,802 1,992,185 0 0 0 45,060 2,200 603,720 13,434 7,825 1,400,631 0 0 0 0 317,050 82,800 0 1,500 0 0 0 0 51,154,299 4,255,696 6,376,963 1,709,597 436,679 2,680,076 2,074,359 17,500 6,832,093 42,482 133,608 12,797 138 10,791,368 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent RecurrentCapital and Financing Capital and Financing Report No. 11 Page 5 / 7 5.5 5.6 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.6 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 R&D Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. Housing development Community development Water supply Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services Hospital services Public health services 501 329 331 347 347 501 347 365 347 365 501 365 370 330 370 314 345 370 601 MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Science Technology and Environment MInistry of Urban Development MInistry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Commerce and Supply Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Home Ministry of Defence Ministry of Health and Population MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES HEALTH 06 07 0 3,585,110 499,323 596,975 1,230,180 89,434 468,387 4,994,563 6,071,814 12,212,421 2,415,912 27,396,294 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 0 0 138 0 0 0 0 0 0 395,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 805,000 230,095 2,083,223 2,901,115 3,543,379 501,300 64,911 1,940,779 13,135,332 689,868 1,435,200 1,031,597 902,897 136,500 5,399,356 549,662 496,949 6,636,724 3,250,000 0 0 0 12,797 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 43,979 0 0 0 75,598 10,750 1,156,784 0 34,235 0 42,755 0 301,200 0 0 0 1,400 76,543 0 36,088 0 0 0 17,583 7,964 687,677 0 30,676 70,000 17,516 0 0 0 0 0 95,450 249,135 496,949 3,603,981 0 805,000 144,144 773,376 586,973 1,199,595 501,300 0 1,273,804 12,142,839 391,910 739,000 942,163 434,510 0 444,443 89,362 0 265,484 0 0 85,951 1,216,666 2,282,493 499,323 0 0 596,975 932,222 297,958 0 89,434 468,387 136,500 4,858,063 134,622 0 2,687,192 3,250,000 Recurrent Total 0 86,348 1,156,784 34,235 343,955 0 0 1,400 112,631 0 0 25,547 687,677 100,676 17,516 0 0 95,450 4,350,065 45,278 0 86,348 1,156,784 34,235 343,955 0 0 1,400 112,631 0 0 12,797 0 0 0 0 0 0 43,979 0 0 138 0 0 395,000 0 0 0 0 0 805,000 5,214,433 4,044,679 2,005,690 15,260,400 1,031,597 902,897 5,535,856 10,933,335 15,434,406 17,190,611 4,425,756 805,869 5,191,362 1,534,974 250,599 0 502,489 395,000 0 22,342,366 37,766,500 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent RecurrentCapital and Financing Capital and Financing Report No. 11 Page 6 / 7 7.5 8.1 8.2 8.3 9.1 9.2 9.5 9.6 9.8 10.4 10.7 10.8 R&D Health Recreational and sporting services Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R&D Social protection 365 370 370 343 325 365 358 350 350 350 350 350 365 370 301 365 Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION EDUCATION SOCIAL PROTECTION 08 09 10 3,649,109 1,477,707 1,093,985 144,944 28,883,975 15,407,005 19,939,497 7,596,837 1,618,740 1,070,376 12,882,708 108,180 2,716,636 73,446,054 15,439,778 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 60,000 15,374,406 4,960,006 1,483,757 1,873,073 64,613 560,220 29,424,572 15,407,005 24,269,510 15,167,273 1,765,695 929,523 243,713 53,358 13,002,415 0 0 458,510 0 8,500 0 0 0 0 0 8,268 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 136,568 0 0 41,595 150 1,590 0 0 29,530 0 0 0 0 32,343 0 45,278 700,569 0 527,738 23,018 117,926 539,007 0 4,247,549 7,507,540 111,720 0 62,384 0 111,843 0 3,176,707 15,250 6,050 242,850 0 297,200 0 0 82,464 25,098 35,235 40,476 0 2,265 26,614 60,000 12,152,421 3,649,109 1,477,707 1,093,985 0 144,944 28,883,975 15,407,005 19,939,497 7,596,837 1,618,740 889,047 181,329 51,093 12,831,615 Recurrent Total 136,568 0 41,595 150 1,590 0 0 29,530 0 0 32,343 0 700,569 0 550,756 117,926 539,007 0 4,247,549 7,507,540 111,720 62,384 111,843 0 136,568 0 41,595 150 1,590 0 0 29,530 0 0 32,343 0 458,510 0 8,500 0 0 0 0 8,268 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4,960,006 1,483,757 1,937,686 560,220 29,424,572 15,407,005 24,269,510 15,167,273 1,765,695 1,173,236 13,055,773 125,940 546,100 142,797 225,395 668,682 12,405,816 290,925 41,745 31,120 134,758 8,500 8,268 189,316 0 0 0 3,981,663 86,034,055 16,280,172 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent RecurrentCapital and Financing Capital and Financing Report No. 11 Page 7 / 7 10.9 Social protection n.e.c. 371 314 340 Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare 1,378,514 335,296,197 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry Grand Total 0 0 0 125,940 130,312 1,794,911 0 0 189,316 0 102,415 0 0 27,897 88,801 17,760 0 138,280 108,180 0 1,378,514 Recurrent Total 102,415 116,698 102,415 189,316 0 1,925,223 192,086,011 44,904,451 26,080,547 18,750,547 982,247 618,100,000 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent RecurrentCapital and Financing Capital and Financing 527,382,208Priority Total 70,984,998 19,732,794 Report No. 12 Page 1 / 8 01.1 01.3 Executive and legislative organs, financial, fiscal affair General services 101 102 202 206 208 301 305 326 347 352 356 365 501 503 504 601 602 210 305 314 325 326 347 356 President Deputy President Constituent Assembly / Legislature Parliament Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Foreign Affairs MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous Public Service Commission Ministry of Finance Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of General Administration GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICES01 01-Increase Sector Contribution in Development Process for Sustainable,Broad-based Economic growth 02 Physical Infrastructure Development Sector /Ministry 03 Improve Access, Utilization and Quality in Social Service Sectors 04 Good Governance in Public and Other Sector 05 Social and Economic Empowerment of targeted Community, Area and Group Total 1544244 144090 1688334 10000 236800 3200000 990000 15500 500000 510000 247797 1544244 1099 1010000 247797 4190000 15500 10000 236800 1099 16112797 4205500 369718 554088 1018656 730320 1838790 411742 29230 1270644 794924 516388 4021176 6465481 2847949 76594 155773 55265 872694 3200000 20526029 4597586 51125643 21781549 460562 609486 9338410 263297 448379 597073 728532 335440 3000 89800 38415 621354 455906 5510 1790 13600 16465005 3811679 1381549 358687 50390 34853 76302 26230 1180844 429984 289853 3982761 3907956 2392043 71084 153983 55265 301760 4061024 785907 51125643 16240000 388412 8979723 397989 456879 84200 107533 169589 57334 600000 15350 49218 514858 2510942 704773 118748667 13255263 5791950 204878164 85080639 10537135 23223048 637749 114600741 56553009 0 0 0 280740 119002 0 61200 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2050000 56800 560268 0 0 0 82215 0 07-General Administration 159323 1815 159323 1815 3160323 1815 Capital and FinancingRecurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent 06 Reduce Negative impact of Climate Change Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Annex 12 (Rs. in '000) Function-wise Strategic Allocation (Including Financing) ,Fiscal Year -2014/015 Report No. 12 Page 2 / 8 01.5 01.6 01.7 01.8 02.1 02.2 02.5 03.1 R&D General public services General public services n.e.c. Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of go Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services 391 305 212 214 314 337 349 365 501 501 502 365 307 345 314 501 347 National Planning Commission Secreterate Ministry of Finance Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Ministry of Home Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Industry Ministry of Defence Ministry of Home MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development DEFENCE PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY 02 03 01-Increase Sector Contribution in Development Process for Sustainable,Broad-based Economic growth 02 Physical Infrastructure Development Sector /Ministry 03 Improve Access, Utilization and Quality in Social Service Sectors 04 Good Governance in Public and Other Sector 05 Social and Economic Empowerment of targeted Community, Area and Group Total 178376 375712 122918 2521790 31700 14855000 7040 1099 144090 14855000 7040 2521790 31700 122918 178376 375712 7040 312034 2553490 1277771 16765 73049 0 0 0 0 0 18741 0 2767166 809524 16840 398060 120170 60699 108341 500000 3085576 178376 2000000 51052542 15353630 350000 28371098 77000 2521790 38740 193819 3500 46445 97367 32544900 200000 2757834 314132 333427 116670 14254 10974 18507642 150000 25613264 150894 16765 8473 64576 75 576160 2000000 0 0 0 0 10210 16840 4451222 53052542 15353630 28721098 2598790 38740 21327419 0 1569595 31358628 34468738 475325 18507642 25763264 20387317 147312 32544900 2957834 911151 25763264 26369190 2957834 2168924 5490 75 56160 0 0 0 500000 20000 0 2000000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 07-General Administration 3001000 47000 30000 3001000 47000 30000 47000 4058 30000 Capital and FinancingRecurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent 06 Reduce Negative impact of Climate Change Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Report No. 12 Page 3 / 8 03.2 03.3 03.4 03.6 04.1 04.2 Fire-protection services Law courts Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting 314 314 204 216 218 311 371 314 301 314 349 301 330 352 365 371 305 312 329 336 Ministry of Home Ministry of Home Courts Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Ministry of Law, Justice, Constituent Assembly and P Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Home Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Commerce and Supply Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Finance Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Land Reforms and Management ECONOMIC AFFAIRS04 01-Increase Sector Contribution in Development Process for Sustainable,Broad-based Economic growth 02 Physical Infrastructure Development Sector /Ministry 03 Improve Access, Utilization and Quality in Social Service Sectors 04 Good Governance in Public and Other Sector 05 Social and Economic Empowerment of targeted Community, Area and Group Total 3844273 20333623 24371881 12600 118580 46586 200938 1277771 1785715 1500 312034 4725412 94051 346750 400 29473 41185 1586264 211284 390 211574 505204 2626074 501421 1000000 17595239 1337918 225101 417808 2852959 312034 4725412 604275 1277771 1785715 13784799 46586 200938 12600 118580 6713746 11875512 94091570 247524 961180 0 410813 0 2337612 24723 598186 2047484 21327419 6011 3521046 573444 38256 135394 9548 1016798 1273633 2572011 3995178 133985 1305623 505604 9626428 822830 1000000 23235746 9496243 3412418 911151 200 390600 1400 4005 11822 19 151473 105640 581167 11447 108910 107610 57149 36093 123008 63173 20387317 5811 2246181 421606 34251 123572 9529 865325 165941 1990844 118813 25075 612191 204136 599503 4239871 1727269 18741 400865 9948 67552 2270060 24723 48969 460819 0 623890 0 935495 2775 836735 6011 4277688 1016798 7840822 12394470 53967930 1929987 170198346 5811 2835139 865325 2275598 841402 7484181 200 407846 151473 698254 273669 265504 13601227 1459746 10210 0 483400 140490 0 0 0 0 934500 0 995 0 2775 0 0 0 0 0 1271 585016 07-General Administration 4058 60368 17941 804587 324157 350170 340200 998 312983 2723881 480 4058 78309 1478914 341198 3037344 2934163 3672590 Capital and FinancingRecurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent 06 Reduce Negative impact of Climate Change Recurrent 1408892 234295 477116 251589 1643187 728705 5521519 770217 Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Report No. 12 Page 4 / 8 04.3 04.4 04.5 04.6 04.7 Fuel and energy Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport Communication Other industries 352 357 365 501 307 308 331 501 307 337 325 337 347 365 501 331 358 501 307 312 325 329 Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Science Technology and Environment MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Science Technology and Environment Ministry of Information and Communications MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation 01-Increase Sector Contribution in Development Process for Sustainable,Broad-based Economic growth 02 Physical Infrastructure Development Sector /Ministry 03 Improve Access, Utilization and Quality in Social Service Sectors 04 Good Governance in Public and Other Sector 05 Social and Economic Empowerment of targeted Community, Area and Group Total 50022 5967 125496 500000 12502237 1281062 1198958 28793818 2600000 450000 31232774 365770 7554611 2070000 131975 135500 240000 968241 521525 417981 92243 34475 50000 4788236 7390 777605 207993 190268 12178 438403 55021 1000000 20932 844375 1500000 1034243 16520 6275 20634 175365 12238 37784 5967 40914 41157 26165 17260 2365307 1034243 43429 34475 5623231 398261 450581 29992776 2600000 41673155 507475 3479461 500000 23944 0 0 0 0 477911 13972307 1373305 1000000 40439 2475686 3912575 30793818 80194 2600000 500000 38412776 757291 9414232 2070000 447074 3568622 240000 3014392 47432 1287550 37894 43230 155519 16295 212941 144500 5000 50630 233176 43550 47855 247525 670013 144154 63899 872851 239631 36806 56476 3009678 515475 253602 88398 23944 36477 0 1052500 0 0 37222518 2680194 51154299 4255696 6376963 144154 63899 1149288 3066154 769077 155519 16295 362441 283806 91405 0 250448 0 0 0 36477 0 0 0 0 0 1052500 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 07-General Administration 136364 1240576 117110 176938 136364 1240576 117110 176938 Capital and FinancingRecurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent 06 Reduce Negative impact of Climate Change Recurrent 6819 3871513 450 41062 3878332 41512 Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Report No. 12 Page 5 / 8 04.8 04.9 05.1 05.2 05.4 05.5 05.6 06.1 06.2 R&D Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. Waste management Waste water management Protection of biodiversity and landscape R&D Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. Housing development Community development 501 308 357 305 501 347 501 347 357 329 501 329 331 347 347 501 MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Energy Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Science Technology and Environment MInistry of Urban Development MInistry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES 05 06 01-Increase Sector Contribution in Development Process for Sustainable,Broad-based Economic growth 02 Physical Infrastructure Development Sector /Ministry 03 Improve Access, Utilization and Quality in Social Service Sectors 04 Good Governance in Public and Other Sector 05 Social and Economic Empowerment of targeted Community, Area and Group Total 12500 11500 149601 11500 290586 330000 124600 2257000 45060 805000 349478 51800 101300 48476 129135 2272956 368995 1989695 268189 1891000 248245 1988793 400000 39277 9164 17501 720895 250000 12500 11500 250000 466530 39277 9164 17501 720895 268189 1891000 248245 2388793 48476 129135 2272956 368995 330000 2381600 45060 805000 349478 153100 250000 715473 26665 818233 2139245 3375372 2450567 1380711 3581138 13788690 1400631 0 0 0 15300 0 23778 0 0 39078 16860 1989695 1402131 307466 106679 330000 173076 2507000 174195 1900164 17500 805000 230095 2083223 2901115 3543379 501300 11107 29657 315786 83072 190147 97110 1400631 15300 10981 12797 1500 0 0 0 2200 0 66881 0 0 1709597 436679 2680076 2074359 17500 805000 5214433 4044679 2005690 69081 7880 10791368 22342366 83072 190147 97110 11107 29657 315786 190147 166685 29657 356786 0 1500 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2200 0 0 66743 138 0 0 07-General Administration 43050 824809 43050 824809 Capital and FinancingRecurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent 06 Reduce Negative impact of Climate Change Recurrent 74451 1033121 144144 752574 1107572 505000 896718 16700 1107572 505656 896718 51575 Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Report No. 12 Page 6 / 8 06.3 06.6 07.1 07.2 07.3 07.4 07.5 08.1 Water supply Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services Hospital services Public health services R&D Health Recreational and sporting services 347 365 347 365 501 365 370 330 370 314 345 370 601 365 370 370 343 MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Commerce and Supply Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Home Ministry of Defence Ministry of Health and Population MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Youth and Sports HEALTH RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION 07 08 01-Increase Sector Contribution in Development Process for Sustainable,Broad-based Economic growth 02 Physical Infrastructure Development Sector /Ministry 03 Improve Access, Utilization and Quality in Social Service Sectors 04 Good Governance in Public and Other Sector 05 Social and Economic Empowerment of targeted Community, Area and Group Total 140985 12057423 142967 1435200 370000 445843 299334 3176707 151818 854743 156973 416289 136500 4953513 4281457 60000 5959388 4645188 44416 942163 7904 89434 466530 248943 149601 140985 248943 7904 89434 44416 942163 1011716 416289 5090013 4281457 6019388 4645188 13635590 370000 445843 299334 3176707 151818 40000 276200 *********** 1394346 4443702 129183 16860 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 64911 1940779 13135332 689868 1435200 1031597 902897 136500 5399356 549662 496949 6636724 3250000 60000 15374406 4960006 1483757 41000 64510 165905 2238 6050 69575 52098 383757 496949 2053695 3250000 6238311 1239607 16860 7880 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 15260400 1031597 902897 5535856 10933335 15434406 4960006 1483757 0 0 37766500 3981663 69575 52098 6184401 6238311 1239607 41000 64510 168143 6050 12474810 1698354 232653 140867 0 0 7880 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 07-General Administration 30676 12374 163000 238100 34235 790574 163000 238100 163000 261118 41595 Capital and FinancingRecurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent 06 Reduce Negative impact of Climate Change Recurrent 505000 656 16700 34875 656 34875 Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Report No. 12 Page 7 / 8 08.2 08.3 09.1 09.2 09.5 09.6 09.8 10.4 10.7 10.8 10.9 Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R&D Social protection Social protection n.e.c. 325 365 358 350 350 350 350 350 365 370 301 365 371 314 Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home EDUCATION SOCIAL PROTECTION 09 10 01-Increase Sector Contribution in Development Process for Sustainable,Broad-based Economic growth 02 Physical Infrastructure Development Sector /Ministry 03 Improve Access, Utilization and Quality in Social Service Sectors 04 Good Governance in Public and Other Sector 05 Social and Economic Empowerment of targeted Community, Area and Group Total 518602 518602 129183 1590 81269 35235 40476 1394346 539007 *********** 532006 1730460 889047 276200 40000 1195 518602 1195 40000 276200 1394346 539007 *********** 532006 1730460 889047 129183 1590 81269 35235 40476 1195 *********** 889047 118094 40476 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1873073 64613 560220 29424572 15407005 24269510 15167273 1765695 929523 243713 53358 13002415 125940 130312 113667 21150 54628 27640 235877 222870 28883975 15407005 14580639 243713 12723222 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1937686 560220 29424572 15407005 24269510 15167273 1765695 1173236 13055773 125940 1925223 0 0 86034055 16280172 235877 222870 28883975 15407005 14580639 243713 12723222 141850 113667 21150 54628 27640 20415 58871619 13108785 54628 48055 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 07-General Administration 23018 51093 220236 108180 27897 41595 2265 31317 17760 102415 23018 271329 108180 1542678 41595 33582 17760 220280 1922187 271622 Capital and FinancingRecurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent 06 Reduce Negative impact of Climate Change Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Report No. 12 Page 8 / 8 340 Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare 01-Increase Sector Contribution in Development Process for Sustainable,Broad-based Economic growth 02 Physical Infrastructure Development Sector /Ministry 03 Improve Access, Utilization and Quality in Social Service Sectors 04 Good Governance in Public and Other Sector 05 Social and Economic Empowerment of targeted Community, Area and Group Total 26880903 7681513 29192281 10791914853654165 23616551 6709378 1794911 20415 141850 9368493 618100000 266844822 64002159 0 34,56,24,16 1,37,11,14,29 77,27,07,16 16,07,78,71 3,30,84,69,81 07-General Administration 1514781 117865 8534899 4842431 13,37,73,30 Capital and FinancingRecurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent 06 Reduce Negative impact of Climate Change Recurrent 7134747 1718510 8,85,32,57 Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Note: 1. Strategies are based on three years interim plan(2013/14-2015/16. Grand Total Strategy Total Report No. 13 Page 1 / 8 1.1 1.3 1.5 1.6 Executive and legislative organs, financial, fiscal affairs and ex General services R&D General public services General public services n.e.c. 101 102 202 206 208 301 305 326 347 352 356 365 501 503 504 601 602 210 305 314 325 326 347 356 391 305 212 President Deputy President Constituent Assembly / Legislature Parliament Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Foreign Affairs MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous Public Service Commission Ministry of Finance Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of General Administration National Planning Commission Secreterate Ministry of Finance Election Commission GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICES01 5,074,727 0 0 3,117,670 8,315,315 Function-wise Gender Responsive Budget (Including Financing), Fiscal Year 2014/15 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 13 Description 335,440 3,000 89,800 280,740 119,002 38,415 533,510 455,406 0 0 0 0 3,200,000 16,465,005 3,811,679 0 3,431,549 56,800 560,268 358,687 0 290 0 0 53,199 0 56,160 411,742 29,230 1,270,644 794,924 516,388 4,021,176 6,465,481 2,847,949 76,594 155,773 55,265 872,694 3,200,000 20,526,029 4,597,586 51,125,643 21,781,549 460,562 609,486 9,338,410 263,297 448,379 597,073 728,532 809,524 16,840 398,060 76,302 26,230 1,180,844 514,184 397,386 368,962 3,880,793 2,382,016 0 0 0 0 0 4,061,024 785,907 51,125,643 16,850,000 214,218 49,218 8,979,723 0 10,650 0 0 401,295 0 133,847 0 0 0 0 0 0 150,859 500 5,510 1,790 0 13,600 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 15,500 50,100 82,215 34,853 147,209 75 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,006,725 10,027 71,084 153,983 55,265 801,760 0 0 0 0 0 189,544 0 0 247,797 387,339 514,858 693,679 207,821 16,765 208,053 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 990,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,613,799 893,594 0 0 0 0 57,334 0 0 0 0 510,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 990,000 0 0 3,500 2,098,844 2,241,038 16,765 286,883 172,259 329,877 75 566,445 81,649,291 9,655,104 0 144,821 28,763,546 1,029,244 0 331,903 118,748,667 13,255,263 16,840 4,451,222 3,369,212 19,498,530 1,068,656 109,956,858 62,669,593 204,878,164 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 13 Page 2 / 8 1.7 1.8 2.1 2.2 2.5 3.1 3.2 3.3 Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of governmen Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services Fire-protection services Law courts 214 314 337 349 365 501 501 502 365 307 345 314 501 347 314 314 204 216 218 311 371 National Human Rights Commission Ministry of Home Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Industry Ministry of Defence Ministry of Home MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Home Ministry of Home Courts Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Ministry of Law, Justice, Constituent Assembly and Parliamentary Ministry of Labour and Employment DEFENCE PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY 02 03 0 122,918 0 0 7,040 0 0 0 7,040 312,034 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description 0 0 97,367 0 0 178,376 0 32,544,900 0 200,000 2,780 30,000 2,521,790 0 0 200 390,600 141,890 4,005 10,344 0 120,170 60,699 108,341 500,000 3,085,576 178,376 2,000,000 51,052,542 15,353,630 350,000 28,371,098 77,000 2,521,790 38,740 21,327,419 6,011 3,521,046 573,444 38,256 135,394 9,548 0 0 10,974 0 0 0 0 18,507,642 0 150,000 557,048 47,000 0 0 0 5,811 2,300,681 431,554 34,251 105,609 0 0 46,445 0 500,000 20,000 0 0 0 0 0 2,755,054 0 0 0 921,361 0 483,400 0 0 1,478 19 0 14,254 0 0 64,576 0 0 0 14,855,000 0 25,056,216 0 0 0 20,406,058 0 346,365 0 0 17,963 9,529 3,500 0 0 0 0 0 2,000,000 0 375,712 0 0 0 0 31,700 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 116,670 0 0 0 3,001,000 0 0 0 122,918 0 0 0 0 7,040 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 2,000,000 375,712 0 0 31,700 0 0 0 0 14,855,000 25,056,216 0 0 20,406,058 0 373,857 0 0 2,755,054 0 0 921,361 0 484,897 18,507,642 0 707,048 47,000 0 0 5,811 2,872,095 32,544,900 0 202,780 2,551,790 0 0 200 546,839 53,052,542 15,353,630 28,721,098 2,598,790 38,740 21,327,419 6,011 4,277,688 31,700 1,277,771 25,056,216 25,186,065 2,755,054 2,997,492 754,048 3,954,349 2,754,570 741,027 31,358,628 34,468,738 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 13 Page 3 / 8 3.4 3.6 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting Fuel and energy Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport 314 301 314 349 301 330 352 365 371 305 312 329 336 352 357 365 501 307 308 331 501 307 337 325 Ministry of Home Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Home Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Commerce and Supply Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Finance Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Science Technology and Environment MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation ECONOMIC AFFAIRS04 0 312,034 830,752 14,715,356 3,820,496 0 250,997 21,122,281 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description 0 105,640 88,348 0 108,910 0 0 0 0 0 1,500 93,302 377,310 0 0 0 0 20,932 699,604 0 5,265,000 0 0 0 1,016,798 1,273,633 2,572,011 3,995,178 133,985 1,305,623 505,604 9,626,428 822,830 1,000,000 23,235,746 9,496,243 3,412,418 477,911 13,972,307 1,373,305 1,000,000 40,439 2,475,686 3,912,575 30,793,818 80,194 2,600,000 500,000 0 165,941 910,502 0 25,075 0 0 0 0 0 94,051 2,312,477 1,986,729 247,525 17,520 0 0 12,238 82,233 0 0 0 0 0 151,473 934,500 492,819 12,442 0 241,135 0 206,073 95,669 0 1,320,707 3,055,165 271,269 36,536 12,202,320 801,124 1,000,000 0 1,535,725 6,882 22,149,318 16,295 2,600,000 450,000 865,325 67,552 1,080,342 2,392,931 0 848,488 0 7,318,141 538,249 1,000,000 6,450,551 3,718,387 426,460 137,975 1,146,427 89,846 0 0 158,124 57,836 0 63,899 0 50,000 0 0 0 1,277,771 0 216,000 400 1,961,915 3,663 0 1,210,329 162,566 480 18,485 593,595 479,938 0 450 0 34,180 3,379,500 0 0 0 0 0 0 312,034 0 0 505,204 140,299 185,249 0 14,158,608 154,346 350,170 37,390 12,445 2,397 0 6,819 0 3,813,677 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 1,277,771 2,181,978 2,465,393 3,414,130 0 7,074,287 865,325 3,540,825 8,704,878 12,969,646 215,960 63,899 5,721,921 151,473 1,439,761 542,877 18,687,121 23,691,925 2,616,295 33,290,062 0 1,076,443 25,075 4,658,302 94,471 0 941,932 0 193,988 108,910 472,112 5,985,536 0 3,875,100 1,016,798 7,840,822 12,394,470 53,967,930 37,222,518 2,680,194 51,154,299 15,765,590 30,429,659 82,679,994 9,047,370 11,153,452 170,198,346 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 13 Page 4 / 8 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 5.1 5.2 5.4 5.5 5.6 Communication Other industries R&D Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. Waste management Waste water management Protection of biodiversity and landscape R&D Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. 337 347 365 501 331 358 501 307 312 325 329 501 308 357 305 501 347 501 347 357 329 501 Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Science Technology and Environment Ministry of Information and Communications MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Energy Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION05 224,827 1,240,576 39,277 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description 1,660,600 144,500 0 2,070,000 88,450 216,637 0 17,745 0 47,855 0 0 0 0 11,107 330,000 0 250,000 0 0 0 0 38,412,776 757,291 9,414,232 2,070,000 447,074 3,568,622 240,000 3,014,392 47,432 1,287,550 37,894 1,989,695 1,402,131 307,466 106,679 330,000 173,076 2,507,000 174,195 1,900,164 17,500 805,000 702,301 239,631 0 0 33,692 2,598,956 0 110,243 0 489,127 0 0 0 0 95,572 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 24,182,488 68,720 8,588,854 0 44,980 16,539 240,000 1,010,566 6,275 521,525 20,634 1,989,695 1,500 0 0 0 124,600 0 45,060 1,891,000 2,200 805,000 4,884,679 3,670 783,572 0 36,218 570,722 0 458,324 41,157 229,043 17,260 0 1,400,631 0 0 0 48,476 0 129,135 9,164 15,300 0 6,772,237 297,050 5,000 0 49,175 135,500 0 176,938 0 0 0 0 0 268,189 0 0 0 2,257,000 0 0 0 0 210,471 3,720 36,806 0 194,559 30,268 0 1,240,576 0 0 0 0 0 39,277 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 184,675 176,938 268,189 0 2,257,000 0 0 0 0 606,940 745,784 1,400,631 0 48,476 138,299 15,300 0 3,338,736 301,519 3,548,695 1,500 0 124,600 1,936,060 2,200 805,000 1,434,593 2,632,648 599,370 0 95,572 0 0 0 0 284,718 305,087 65,600 0 341,107 250,000 0 0 0 156,386 4,255,696 6,376,963 1,709,597 436,679 2,680,076 2,074,359 17,500 805,000 5,214,433 2,257,000 3,540,811 4,302,453 284,718 406,386 10,791,368 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 13 Page 5 / 8 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.6 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 Housing development Community development Water supply Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services Hospital services Public health services R&D Health 329 331 347 347 501 347 365 347 365 501 365 370 330 370 314 345 370 601 365 370 Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Science Technology and Environment MInistry of Urban Development MInistry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Commerce and Supply Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Home Ministry of Defence Ministry of Health and Population MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES HEALTH 06 07 4,734 0 371,251 0 0 3,393,517 732,426 12,093,508 333,886 375,985 16,553,337 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description 0 145,636 10,750 679,941 0 0 0 34,875 0 0 0 0 0 0 89,362 0 0 0 0 0 230,095 2,083,223 2,901,115 3,543,379 501,300 64,911 1,940,779 13,135,332 689,868 1,435,200 1,031,597 902,897 136,500 5,399,356 549,662 496,949 6,636,724 3,250,000 60,000 15,374,406 0 276,754 7,964 136,932 0 0 0 656 0 0 0 0 0 0 134,622 0 0 0 0 0 144,144 703,338 587,111 1,514,730 501,300 34,235 1,273,804 10,102,323 0 226,200 942,163 434,510 0 318,108 76,543 0 189,989 0 0 2,845 85,951 957,495 2,295,290 1,045,334 0 30,676 666,975 875,789 0 0 89,434 468,387 136,500 1,559,996 249,135 496,949 5,602,726 3,250,000 0 164,191 0 0 0 161,708 0 0 0 2,048,396 391,910 1,209,000 0 0 0 127,735 0 0 111,583 0 0 3,173,862 0 0 0 4,734 0 0 0 73,293 297,958 0 0 0 0 3,393,517 0 0 732,426 0 60,000 12,033,508 Recurrent Total 161,708 0 3,649,306 0 0 127,735 111,583 3,173,862 1,070 1,045,334 697,651 875,789 89,434 468,387 1,696,496 9,598,810 164,191 4,474,302 2,016,030 1,308,039 10,328,523 942,163 434,510 318,108 266,532 2,845 150,748 136,932 0 656 0 0 0 134,622 0 0 679,941 0 34,875 0 0 0 89,362 0 0 4,044,679 2,005,690 15,260,400 1,031,597 902,897 5,535,856 10,933,335 15,434,406 4,960,006 3,811,014 3,414,250 2,708,208 16,402,186 14,594,755 1,172,743 137,588 134,622 714,816 89,362 22,342,366 37,766,500 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 13 Page 6 / 8 8.1 8.2 8.3 9.1 9.2 9.5 9.6 9.8 10.4 10.7 10.8 10.9 Recreational and sporting services Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R&D Social protection Social protection n.e.c. 370 343 325 365 358 350 350 350 350 350 365 370 301 365 371 314 Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION EDUCATION SOCIAL PROTECTION 08 09 10 0 23,018 40,000 29,422,982 0 24,165,046 665,089 1,730,460 889,047 14,897 0 1,303,499 63,018 55,983,577 2,207,443 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description 0 0 242,850 0 21,000 0 0 0 20,000 0 0 0 2,265 0 0 0 4,960,006 1,483,757 1,873,073 64,613 560,220 29,424,572 15,407,005 24,269,510 15,167,273 1,765,695 929,523 243,713 53,358 13,002,415 125,940 130,312 0 0 830,223 0 104,944 0 0 0 82,995 0 0 0 51,093 0 0 0 150,748 6,050 0 0 150 0 0 0 25,145 0 0 0 0 53,764 17,760 0 4,474,302 1,477,707 800,000 0 117,926 0 15,407,005 22,000 14,364,561 0 0 243,713 0 12,928,561 108,180 0 1,070 0 0 41,595 276,200 1,590 0 82,464 9,483 35,235 40,476 0 0 5,193 0 102,415 333,886 0 0 23,018 40,000 29,422,982 0 24,165,046 665,089 1,730,460 889,047 0 0 14,897 0 27,897 Recurrent Total 0 41,595 276,200 1,590 0 82,464 9,483 35,235 40,476 5,193 0 207,070 1,477,707 800,000 117,926 0 15,407,005 22,000 14,364,561 0 243,713 12,928,561 108,180 381,029 6,050 0 150 0 0 0 25,145 0 0 53,764 17,760 33,625 0 830,223 104,944 0 0 0 82,995 0 0 51,093 0 0 0 242,850 21,000 0 0 0 20,000 0 0 2,265 0 0 1,483,757 1,937,686 560,220 29,424,572 15,407,005 24,269,510 15,167,273 1,765,695 1,173,236 13,055,773 125,940 1,925,223 317,795 128,772 252,739 2,395,633 29,793,566 13,661,483 6,200 25,145 105,149 935,167 82,995 51,093 263,850 20,000 2,265 3,981,663 86,034,055 16,280,172 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 13 Page 7 / 8 340 Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare 104,940,030 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description Total 0 1,794,911 0 33,625 381,029 104,655 1,275,602 Recurrent Total 30,625,843 168,672,357 109,707,641 125,338,808 78,815,321 618,100,000 Neutral Capital and Financing 135,565,873Grant Total 278,379,998 204,154,129 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 13 Page 8 / 8 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description Recurrent Total Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Note : Gender Responsive Budget Classifications Basis of classification for Gender Responsive Budget are as follows : a)50 percent or more budget directly beneficial for women Direct Responsive b) 20 or more and less then 50 percent of budget directly beneficial for women Indirect Responsive c) Less than 20 Percent of budget beneficial for women Neutral Following indicators are used to assess the percentage above. Women Participation in formulation and implementation of Program Percentage Women Capacity Development Women's share in benefit Support in employment and income generating to women Quality reform in time consumption & minimization in of work load to women Indicators 20 20 30 20 10 100 Total S.N. 1 2 3 4 5 Gender Responsive Amount Code Percent 1 2 3 Directly Indirectly Neutral 135565873 278379998 204154129 21.93 45.04 33.03 Report No. 14 Page 1 / 7 1.1 1.3 1.5 1.6 Executive and legislative organs, financial, fiscal affairs and external General services R&D General public services General public services n.e.c. 101 102 202 206 208 301 305 326 347 352 356 365 501 503 504 601 602 210 305 314 325 326 347 356 391 305 212 President Deputy President Constituent Assembly / Legislature Parliament Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Foreign Affairs MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous Public Service Commission Ministry of Finance Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of General Administration National Planning Commission Secreterate Ministry of Finance Election Commission GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICES01 6,679,949 313,377 0 3,065,576 25,036,820 Function-wise Pro-poor budget (Including Financing), Fiscal Year 2014/15 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 14 Description 411,742 29,230 1,270,644 794,924 516,388 4,021,176 6,465,481 2,847,949 76,594 155,773 55,265 872,694 3,200,000 20,526,029 4,597,586 51,125,643 21,781,549 460,562 609,486 9,338,410 263,297 448,379 597,073 728,532 809,524 16,840 398,060 335,440 3,000 89,800 280,740 119,002 38,415 682,554 455,906 5,510 0 0 0 3,200,000 16,465,005 3,811,679 0 1,381,549 56,800 560,268 358,687 0 50,390 82,215 34,853 200,038 75 56,160 76,302 26,230 1,180,844 514,184 397,386 368,962 5,188,039 2,392,043 71,084 0 55,265 0 0 4,061,024 785,907 50,975,643 16,050,000 403,762 49,218 8,979,723 0 397,989 514,858 693,679 543,536 16,765 341,900 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,815 0 0 1,790 0 13,600 0 0 0 0 3,040,000 0 0 0 15,500 0 0 0 370 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,613,799 593,073 0 0 153,983 0 859,094 0 0 0 150,000 1,310,000 0 0 0 247,797 0 0 0 65,580 0 0 Total 26,868,600 1,343,251 75 881,848 82,142,913 11,582,765 16,765 483,798 26,868,600 1,343,251 75 881,848 118,748,667 13,255,263 16,840 4,451,222 5,468,787 112,733,883 61,638,674 204,878,164 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 14 Page 2 / 7 1.7 1.8 2.1 2.2 2.5 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of government Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services Fire-protection services Law courts Prisons 214 314 337 349 365 501 501 502 365 307 345 314 501 347 314 314 204 216 218 311 371 National Human Rights Commission Ministry of Home Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Industry Ministry of Defence Ministry of Home MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Home Ministry of Home Courts Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Ministry of Law, Justice, Constituent Assembly and Parliamentary Affair Ministry of Labour and Employment DEFENCE PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY 02 03 0 14,977,918 0 0 0 0 5,811 22,421 0 0 3,514,666 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description 120,170 60,699 108,341 500,000 3,085,576 178,376 2,000,000 51,052,542 15,353,630 350,000 28,371,098 77,000 2,521,790 38,740 21,327,419 6,011 3,521,046 573,444 38,256 135,394 9,548 3,500 46,445 97,367 500,000 0 178,376 0 32,544,900 0 200,000 2,757,834 30,000 2,521,790 31,700 921,361 0 874,000 141,890 4,005 6,738 19 116,670 14,254 10,974 0 0 0 0 18,507,642 0 150,000 25,613,264 47,000 0 7,040 20,406,058 0 2,647,046 431,554 34,251 101,151 9,529 0 0 0 0 20,000 0 2,000,000 0 375,712 0 0 0 0 0 0 200 0 0 0 5,084 0 0 0 0 0 3,065,576 0 0 0 14,977,918 0 0 0 0 0 0 5,811 0 0 0 22,421 0 Total 32,544,900 0 2,957,834 2,551,790 31,700 921,361 0 1,026,652 151,473 18,507,642 0 25,763,264 47,000 7,040 20,406,058 0 3,223,531 865,325 32,544,900 0 2,957,834 2,551,790 31,700 921,361 0 1,026,652 151,473 53,052,542 15,353,630 28,721,098 2,598,790 38,740 21,327,419 6,011 4,277,688 1,016,798 0 1,775,874 25,817,304 25,937,782 5,541,324 3,240,416 31,358,628 34,468,738 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 14 Page 3 / 7 3.6 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting Fuel and energy Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport 314 301 314 349 301 330 352 365 371 305 312 329 336 352 357 365 501 307 308 331 501 307 337 325 337 Ministry of Home Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Home Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Commerce and Supply Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Finance Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Science Technology and Environment MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport ECONOMIC AFFAIRS04 3,486,434 9,214,091 26,527,612 3,955,445 0 5,647,617 48,496,770 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description 1,016,798 1,273,633 2,572,011 3,995,178 133,985 1,305,623 505,604 9,626,428 822,830 1,000,000 23,235,746 9,496,243 3,412,418 477,911 13,972,307 1,373,305 1,000,000 40,439 2,475,686 3,912,575 30,793,818 80,194 2,600,000 500,000 38,412,776 151,473 1,040,140 88,348 12,442 0 325,010 0 0 57,149 0 41,300 2,114,071 326,647 0 1,025 0 1,000,000 20,932 708,684 0 10,544,000 16,295 0 0 5,635,557 865,325 233,493 910,502 298,873 0 142,478 0 0 204,136 0 125,473 3,039,258 1,884,066 247,525 519,370 0 0 12,238 163,244 0 0 63,899 0 0 1,017,965 0 0 492,819 1,277,771 108,910 132,125 400 2,167,988 42,183 0 2,491,236 1,196,962 322,412 55,021 12,794,890 1,281,062 0 450 1,526,645 41,062 20,249,818 0 2,600,000 450,000 26,979,768 0 0 1,080,342 2,406,092 25,075 706,010 505,204 7,458,440 519,362 1,000,000 20,577,737 3,145,952 879,293 175,365 657,022 92,243 0 6,819 77,113 3,871,513 0 0 0 50,000 4,779,486 Total 1,140,930 382,159 3,483,043 11,273,616 16,295 6,883,020 1,442,868 346,614 5,815,692 175,482 63,899 1,267,233 1,140,930 382,159 3,483,043 11,273,616 16,295 6,883,020 7,840,822 12,394,470 53,967,930 37,222,518 2,680,194 51,154,299 86,748,930 12,102,540 22,850,106 170,198,346 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 14 Page 4 / 7 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 5.1 5.2 5.4 5.5 5.6 Communication Other industries R&D Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. Waste management Waste water management Protection of biodiversity and landscape R&D Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. 347 365 501 331 358 501 307 312 325 329 501 308 357 305 501 347 501 347 357 329 501 329 MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Science Technology and Environment Ministry of Information and Communications MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Energy Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION05 30,268 1,681,829 1,439,908 0 0 9,164 15,300 0 816,614 841,078 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description 757,291 9,414,232 2,070,000 447,074 3,568,622 240,000 3,014,392 47,432 1,287,550 37,894 1,989,695 1,402,131 307,466 106,679 330,000 173,076 2,507,000 174,195 1,900,164 17,500 805,000 230,095 213,220 1,034,243 0 182,605 233,176 0 7,230 0 47,855 0 0 0 0 11,107 330,000 124,600 250,000 45,060 0 0 805,000 0 243,301 5,967 0 264,469 3,169,678 0 422,599 0 481,302 0 0 0 0 95,572 0 48,476 0 129,135 0 0 0 0 297,050 7,559,611 2,070,000 0 135,500 240,000 1,198,019 6,275 521,525 20,634 1,989,695 1,500 268,189 0 0 0 2,257,000 0 1,891,000 2,200 0 144,144 3,720 814,411 0 0 30,268 0 1,386,544 41,157 236,868 17,260 0 1,400,631 39,277 0 0 0 0 0 9,164 15,300 0 85,951 Total 415,781 55,085 0 341,107 374,600 45,060 0 805,000 1,443,635 3,434,147 903,901 0 95,572 48,476 129,135 0 0 2,806,840 415,781 55,085 0 341,107 374,600 45,060 0 805,000 1,443,635 4,255,696 6,376,963 1,709,597 436,679 2,680,076 2,074,359 17,500 805,000 5,214,433 4,297,544 2,984,451 2,668,295 10,791,368 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 14 Page 5 / 7 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.6 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 Housing development Community development Water supply Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services Hospital services Public health services R&D Health 331 347 347 501 347 365 347 365 501 365 370 330 370 314 345 370 601 365 370 370 Ministry of Science Technology and Environment MInistry of Urban Development MInistry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Commerce and Supply Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Home Ministry of Defence Ministry of Health and Population MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Health and Population HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES HEALTH RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION 06 07 08 55,710 192,651 505,755 89,434 0 1,696,496 5,159,633 12,048,230 3,527,154 843,550 22,431,513 975,203 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description 2,083,223 2,901,115 3,543,379 501,300 64,911 1,940,779 13,135,332 689,868 1,435,200 1,031,597 902,897 136,500 5,399,356 549,662 496,949 6,636,724 3,250,000 60,000 15,374,406 4,960,006 845,774 597,861 1,696,772 501,300 0 16,700 5,318,003 0 0 0 434,510 0 127,735 165,905 0 187,751 0 0 2,845 140,468 503,586 2,303,254 1,131,290 0 0 505,000 741,941 0 0 0 468,387 0 3,393,517 383,757 496,949 1,175,519 3,250,000 0 209,469 1,281,034 3,200 0 659,607 0 34,235 1,257,104 6,867,591 391,910 1,435,200 942,163 0 0 318,108 0 0 113,821 0 0 3,173,862 11,350 730,663 0 55,710 0 30,676 161,975 207,797 297,958 0 89,434 0 136,500 1,559,996 0 0 5,159,633 0 60,000 11,988,230 3,527,154 Total 2,198,072 16,700 5,318,003 0 434,510 127,735 353,656 2,845 140,468 1,131,290 505,000 741,941 0 468,387 3,393,517 5,306,225 209,469 1,281,034 2,198,072 16,700 5,318,003 0 434,510 127,735 353,656 2,845 140,468 4,044,679 2,005,690 15,260,400 1,031,597 902,897 5,535,856 10,933,335 15,434,406 4,960,006 11,587,810 3,617,141 317,795 2,378,231 10,658,632 2,418,615 7,532,775 1,059,214 270,050 22,342,366 37,766,500 3,981,663 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 14 Page 6 / 7 8.1 8.2 8.3 9.1 9.2 9.5 9.6 9.8 10.4 10.7 10.8 10.9 Recreational and sporting services Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R&D Social protection Social protection n.e.c. 343 325 365 358 350 350 350 350 350 365 370 301 365 371 314 340 Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare EDUCATION SOCIAL PROTECTION 09 10 108,900 826,303 40,000 29,422,982 15,407,005 21,889,610 7,401,078 1,730,460 889,047 12,860,863 108,180 1,664,528 75,851,135 15,522,618 193,513,353 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description Total 1,483,757 1,873,073 64,613 560,220 29,424,572 15,407,005 24,269,510 15,167,273 1,765,695 929,523 243,713 53,358 13,002,415 125,940 130,312 1,794,911 6,050 242,850 0 21,150 0 0 0 32,700 0 0 0 2,265 26,750 0 0 0 1,368,807 826,938 0 222,870 0 0 2,297,436 7,711,567 0 0 243,713 51,093 82,595 0 0 20,000 0 0 41,595 276,200 1,590 0 82,464 21,928 35,235 40,476 0 0 32,207 17,760 102,415 138,280 108,900 803,285 23,018 40,000 29,422,982 15,407,005 21,889,610 7,401,078 1,730,460 889,047 0 0 12,860,863 108,180 27,897 1,636,631 Total 6,050 242,850 21,150 0 0 0 32,700 0 0 29,015 0 0 1,368,807 826,938 222,870 0 0 2,297,436 7,711,567 0 243,713 133,688 0 20,000 6,050 242,850 21,150 0 0 0 32,700 0 0 29,015 0 0 1,483,757 1,937,686 560,220 29,424,572 15,407,005 24,269,510 15,167,273 1,765,695 1,173,236 13,055,773 125,940 1,925,223 141,217 331,138 10,009,003 397,401 32,700 29,015 86,034,055 16,280,172 114,286,236 205,437,842 104,862,569 618,100,000 307,799,589Grant Total 310,300,411 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 14 Page 7 / 7 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description TotalRecurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Note : Basis of classification for Pro-poor budget are as follows : Description Classification Budget Directly helps in poverty reduction Pro-poor Budget Budget Indirectly helps in poverty reduction Neutral Budget Pro Poor Indicators: Investment in rural sector Income generation program in rural area. Capacity enhancement program in rural area. Budget allocated for social mobilization. Expenditure focusing on poverty reduction. Grant for local bodies. Social security Programs. Investment in social sector specially for education,health etc. Pro-Poor Amount Code Percent 1 2 ProPoor Budget Neutral Budget 307799589 310300411 49.8 50.2 Report No.15 Page 1 / 4 Multilateral Agencies 70,970,869 Asian Development Bank The World Bank Nordic Development Fund OPEC Fund for International Development SAARC Development Fund United Nations Inrenational Fund for Agricultural Development The Union-North America ADB General JFPR ADBPool Fund IDA General WB GEF WB Trust Fund IDA Pool Fund NDF OFID SAARC Fund UNDP UNFPA UNICEF UNWOMEN UN -GEF IOM ILO WHO WFP IFAD 3,695,008 23,652 111,280 77,000 107,124 370,124 2,009 1,213 4,352,359 1,023,900 9,461,723 836,867 162,268 60,388 899,217 4,257,450 320,499 2,835,452 50,000 126,312 723,100 159,120 616,285 9,800 249 56,025 173,148 162,200 42,790 102,800 448,379 4,784,476 7,285,419 6,755,251 197,500 100,000 825,500 731,392 7,828,545 1,255,000 4,584,110 4,410,000 40,000 876,800 22,125 27,418,781 320,499 2,278,900 28,421,012 4,460,000 1,184,331 100,000 40,000 1,702,300 273,548 800,100 266,244 1,089,209 2,009 9,800 249 57,238 173,148 670,967 1,695,524 12,304,817 320,499 1,023,900 12,297,175 50,000 986,831 273,548 800,100 266,244 1,089,209 2,009 9,800 249 57,238 173,148 670,967 942,007 15,113,964 1,255,000 16,123,837 4,410,000 197,500 100,000 40,000 1,702,300 753,517 30,018,180 34,165,343 40,000 1,702,300 273,548 3,068,964 1,695,524 7,010 16,368,964 20,831,337 40,000 1,702,300 753,517 13,649,216 13,334,006 273,548 3,068,964 942,007 7,010 9,083,545 8,994,110 40,000 876,800 22,125 7,285,419 7,052,751 825,500 731,392 4,784,476 551,179 4,577,949 3,011,764 1,899,927 42,790 7,010 5,376,259 10,298,590 162,268 60,388 899,217 3,695,008 23,652 111,280 557,470 39,696,118 31,274,751 19,016,580 15,895,062 4,784,476 551,179 9,539,440 16,796,722 4,387,410 Cash Reimb. Direct Payment Kind Total Total Grant Loan Foreign Grant and Loan Summary (Rs. in '000) Annex 15 Reimb. Direct PaymentCash Total Donor Agencies Fiscal Year 2014/15 Report No.15 Page 2 / 4 Multilateral Agencies Bilateral Donors (Budget) 70,970,869 39,195,996 The Union-North America China Denmark Finland Germany India Japan Korea Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development Netherlands The Union-North America China General China Exim Bank DenmarkGeneral Denmark NPTF Finland General Finland NPTF Germany KFW Germany NPTF India General India Exim Bank Japan JICA Japan â€“ DRF Japan â€“ KR1 Japan -KR2 Korea Exim Bank KFAED 750 175,569 113,454 54,491 300,000 1,140,000 162,000 250,000 346,755 70,000 150,000 7,010 1,006,000 1,511,664 870,464 875,290 1,700,000 1,507,318 10,000 10,000 420,000 86,550 2,000,000 1,020,000 2,415,772 1,161,444 310,000 7,010 1,006,000 2,000,000 1,512,414 175,569 1,217,219 113,454 945,290 54,491 3,170,000 2,415,772 3,098,762 1,140,000 162,000 250,000 310,000 96,550 7,010 1,006,000 1,512,414 175,569 1,217,219 113,454 945,290 54,491 2,150,000 1,517,318 1,140,000 162,000 250,000 10,000 2,000,000 1,020,000 2,415,772 1,581,444 310,000 86,550 7,010 3,006,000 1,687,983 1,330,673 999,781 5,585,772 4,650,762 310,000 96,550 3,700 2,000,000 3,435,772 1,581,444 310,000 86,550 7,010 1,006,000 1,687,983 1,330,673 999,781 2,150,000 3,069,318 10,000 3,700 2,000,000 3,435,772 1,161,444 310,000 420,000 86,550 10,000 1,006,000 1,511,664 870,464 875,290 1,700,000 1,507,318 10,000 1,600 346,755 70,000 150,000 176,319 113,454 54,491 300,000 1,552,000 2,100 39,696,118 7,785,887 31,274,751 31,410,109 6,907,216 878,671 110,000 15,810,054 10,567,083 4,922,972 Cash Reimb. Direct Payment Kind Total Total Grant Loan Reimb. Direct PaymentCash Total Donor Agencies Report No.15 Page 3 / 4 Bilateral Donors (Budget) Others 39,195,996 12,747,829 Netherlands Norway Switzerland Saudi Development Fund United Kingdom United States of America SSRP European Union GEFTAM Plan International Netherlands General NSL Norway General Norway NPTF Switzerland General Switzerland SDC Switzerland HELVETAS Switzerland NTPF Saudi Fund UK General UK NPTF UK DRF UK Pool Fund USAID General SSRP Donor EU General EU NPTF GEFMATGeneral 2,100 5,845 493,371 77,677 109,734 481,000 482,322 760,000 11,936 302,723 449,104 99,976 485,377 259,373 9,020,602 135,000 300 1,300 917,977 172,000 3,470,369 60,000 2,752,430 300,000 423,011 231,931 938,589 100,000 556,530 372,121 2,400 1,300 923,822 493,371 172,000 3,648,022 60,000 109,734 372,121 3,718,807 482,322 760,000 300,000 794,320 9,020,602 366,931 302,723 1,944,223 2,400 1,300 923,822 493,371 172,000 3,648,022 60,000 109,734 3,718,807 482,322 760,000 300,000 794,320 9,020,602 366,931 302,723 1,944,223 372,121 3,700 1,417,193 3,989,756 372,121 5,261,129 794,320 9,020,602 669,654 1,944,223 14,987 372,121 3,700 1,417,193 3,989,756 5,261,129 794,320 9,020,602 669,654 1,944,223 14,987 372,121 100,000 556,530 917,977 3,702,369 3,052,430 423,011 231,931 938,589 14,987 99,976 485,377 259,373 9,020,602 135,000 499,216 187,411 1,723,322 11,936 302,723 449,104 7,785,887 2,046,765 31,410,109 10,701,064 2,046,765 1,366,230 1,123,211 7,657,311 554,312 Cash Reimb. Direct Payment Kind Total Total Grant Loan Reimb. Direct PaymentCash Total Donor Agencies Report No.15 Page 4 / 4 Others 12,747,829 Plan International Care Nepal Global Alliance Against Vaccination and Immunization Save the Children Donor Pool Fund-Health One Heart World Wide Heifer Project International in Nepal Plan International General Care Nepal General Gavi General Save the Children Donor Pool Fund-Health One Heart World Wide Heifer Project International in Nepal 105,208 7,657,311 14,987 1,180 108,700 10,700 49,055 809,700 2,046,765 14,987 1,180 914,908 108,700 9,704,076 10,700 49,055 14,987 1,180 914,908 108,700 7,657,311 10,700 49,055 2,046,765 14,987 1,180 914,908 108,700 9,704,076 10,700 49,055 2,046,765 14,987 1,180 914,908 108,700 7,657,311 10,700 49,055 2,046,765 809,700 1,180 108,700 10,700 49,055 7,657,311 105,208 2,046,765 10,701,064 122,914,694 49,528,770 73,385,924Grant Total 25,923,796 18,820,498 4,784,476 2,027,409 26,472,705 35,021,116 9,864,694 Cash Reimb. Direct Payment Kind Total Total Grant Loan Reimb. Direct PaymentCash Total Donor Agencies Report No. 16 Page 1 / 7 1.1 1.3 1.5 1.6 Executive and legislative organs, financial, fiscal affairs and ex General services R&D General public services General public services n.e.c. 101 102 202 206 208 301 305 326 347 352 356 365 501 503 504 601 602 210 305 314 325 326 347 356 391 305 212 214 President Deputy President Constituent Assembly / Legislature Parliament Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Foreign Affairs MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous Public Service Commission Ministry of Finance Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of General Administration National Planning Commission Secreterate Ministry of Finance Election Commission National Human Rights Commission GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICES01 0 0 0 0 122,918 Climate Budget , Fiscal Year 2014/15 Highly Relevant Relevant (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 16 Description 335,440 3,000 89,800 280,740 119,002 38,415 684,369 455,906 5,510 1,790 0 13,600 3,200,000 16,465,005 3,811,679 0 4,421,549 56,800 560,268 358,687 15,500 50,390 82,215 34,853 200,408 75 56,160 3,500 411,742 29,230 1,270,644 794,924 516,388 4,021,176 6,465,481 2,847,949 76,594 155,773 55,265 872,694 3,200,000 20,526,029 4,597,586 51,125,643 21,781,549 460,562 609,486 9,338,410 263,297 448,379 597,073 728,532 809,524 16,840 398,060 120,170 76,302 26,230 1,180,844 514,184 397,386 3,982,761 5,781,112 2,392,043 71,084 153,983 55,265 859,094 0 4,061,024 785,907 51,125,643 17,360,000 403,762 49,218 8,979,723 247,797 397,989 514,858 693,679 609,116 16,765 341,900 116,670 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 88,822,862 11,896,142 16,765 3,549,374 29,925,805 1,359,121 75 901,848 118,748,667 13,255,263 16,840 4,451,222 375,712 0 0 137,647,785 66,731,749 204,878,164 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 16 Page 2 / 7 1.7 1.8 2.1 2.2 2.5 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of governmen Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services Fire-protection services Law courts Prisons 314 337 349 365 501 501 502 365 307 345 314 501 347 314 314 204 216 218 311 371 314 Ministry of Home Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Industry Ministry of Defence Ministry of Home MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Home Ministry of Home Courts Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Ministry of Law, Justice, Constituent Assembly and Parliamentary Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home DEFENCE PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY 02 03 0 122,918 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 46,445 97,367 500,000 20,000 178,376 2,000,000 32,544,900 0 200,000 2,757,834 30,000 2,521,790 31,700 921,361 200 874,000 141,890 4,005 11,822 19 151,473 60,699 108,341 500,000 3,085,576 178,376 2,000,000 51,052,542 15,353,630 350,000 28,371,098 77,000 2,521,790 38,740 21,327,419 6,011 3,521,046 573,444 38,256 135,394 9,548 1,016,798 14,254 10,974 0 3,065,576 0 0 18,507,642 14,855,000 150,000 25,613,264 47,000 0 7,040 20,406,058 5,811 2,647,046 431,554 34,251 123,572 9,529 865,325 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 375,712 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 122,918 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 18,507,642 14,855,000 25,763,264 47,000 7,040 20,406,058 5,811 3,245,952 865,325 34,544,900 0 2,957,834 2,551,790 31,700 921,361 200 1,031,736 151,473 53,052,542 15,353,630 28,721,098 2,598,790 38,740 21,327,419 6,011 4,277,688 1,016,798 0 0 0 0 0 0 25,817,304 29,452,448 5,541,324 5,016,290 31,358,628 34,468,738 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 16 Page 3 / 7 3.6 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting Fuel and energy Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport 301 314 349 301 330 352 365 371 305 312 329 336 352 357 365 501 307 308 331 501 307 337 325 337 347 365 Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Home Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Commerce and Supply Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Finance Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Science Technology and Environment MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development ECONOMIC AFFAIRS04 0 0 2,854,703 3,951,091 0 212 6,843,565 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 1,040,140 581,167 1,290,213 108,910 457,135 400 2,167,988 99,332 0 1,637,957 123,008 649,059 55,021 2,385,295 0 1,000,000 20,932 171,869 0 22,779,318 16,295 2,600,000 0 30,429,909 213,220 8,593,854 1,273,633 2,572,011 3,995,178 133,985 1,305,623 505,604 9,626,428 822,830 1,000,000 23,235,746 9,496,243 3,412,418 477,911 13,972,307 1,373,305 1,000,000 40,439 2,475,686 3,912,575 30,793,818 80,194 2,600,000 500,000 38,412,776 757,291 9,414,232 233,493 1,990,844 2,704,965 25,075 848,488 505,204 7,458,440 723,498 1,000,000 10,874,256 4,239,871 2,763,359 422,890 754,000 0 0 12,238 167,598 0 0 63,899 0 0 5,794,339 243,301 820,378 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 668,644 2,038,820 0 0 4,699,388 0 0 0 0 0 8,014,500 0 0 450,000 1,836,630 297,050 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 8,869,798 397,835 0 0 166,592 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 50,000 2,900 3,720 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 225,935 1,149,205 0 0 5,711,232 1,281,062 0 450 2,063,460 41,062 0 0 0 0 348,786 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 959,156 1,547,504 0 0 255,800 92,243 0 6,819 72,759 3,871,513 0 0 0 0 212 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 0 7,406,852 8,014,500 0 2,583,680 0 0 9,434,225 0 0 56,620 0 0 7,406,852 8,014,500 0 2,583,680 4,929,302 9,560,705 20,054,376 179,836 63,899 6,858,018 2,911,520 2,833,765 5,850,340 22,972,119 2,616,295 41,306,983 7,840,822 12,394,470 53,967,930 37,222,518 2,680,194 51,154,299 10,870,367 9,718,545 18,005,032 44,037,200 80,723,637 170,198,346 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 16 Page 4 / 7 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 5.1 5.2 5.4 5.5 5.6 Communication Other industries R&D Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. Waste management Waste water management Protection of biodiversity and landscape R&D Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. 501 331 358 501 307 312 325 329 501 308 357 305 501 347 501 347 357 329 501 329 331 347 MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Science Technology and Environment Ministry of Information and Communications MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Energy Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Science Technology and Environment MInistry of Urban Development ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION05 37,559 0 0 0 0 0 15,300 0 1,155,520 1,170,820 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 2,070,000 133,430 368,676 240,000 1,205,249 6,275 569,380 20,634 1,989,695 1,500 268,189 11,107 330,000 124,600 2,257,000 0 0 0 0 0 96,400 28,895 2,070,000 447,074 3,568,622 240,000 3,014,392 47,432 1,287,550 37,894 1,989,695 1,402,131 307,466 106,679 330,000 173,076 2,507,000 174,195 1,900,164 17,500 805,000 230,095 2,083,223 2,901,115 0 226,910 3,199,946 0 1,809,143 41,157 490,470 17,260 0 1,400,631 39,277 95,572 0 48,476 0 127,500 0 0 0 0 201,128 2,247,342 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 45,060 1,891,000 0 0 0 0 10,750 0 0 0 0 0 0 227,700 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,635 9,164 0 0 11,500 0 7,964 0 49,175 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 250,000 0 0 2,200 805,000 144,144 752,574 558,216 0 37,559 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 15,300 0 74,451 1,033,121 47,948 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 0 0 1,936,060 0 0 10,750 0 227,700 0 0 0 10,799 0 0 19,464 0 0 0 0 0 1,936,060 0 0 10,750 3,426,856 2,358,030 1,439,908 95,572 48,476 127,500 0 0 2,448,470 742,106 3,791,233 269,689 341,107 2,381,600 0 0 0 125,295 4,255,696 6,376,963 1,709,597 436,679 2,680,076 2,074,359 17,500 805,000 5,214,433 2,512,134 30,263 1,946,810 2,624,446 2,506,895 10,791,368 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 16 Page 5 / 7 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.6 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 8.1 Housing development Community development Water supply Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services Hospital services Public health services R&D Health Recreational and sporting services 347 501 347 365 347 365 501 365 370 330 370 314 345 370 601 365 370 370 343 MInistry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Commerce and Supply Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Home Ministry of Defence Ministry of Health and Population MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Youth and Sports HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES HEALTH RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION 06 07 08 0 0 1,099,154 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,099,154 0 0 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 2,356,379 501,300 34,235 598,774 1,107,428 0 1,096,200 942,163 434,510 0 445,843 165,905 0 301,572 0 0 3,176,707 151,818 6,050 3,543,379 501,300 64,911 1,940,779 13,135,332 689,868 1,435,200 1,031,597 902,897 136,500 5,399,356 549,662 496,949 6,636,724 3,250,000 60,000 15,374,406 4,960,006 1,483,757 1,187,000 0 30,676 76,542 148,542 0 0 89,434 468,387 136,500 4,953,513 383,757 496,949 6,335,152 3,250,000 0 12,197,699 4,808,188 1,477,707 0 0 0 675,030 0 0 339,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 590,433 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 60,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 11,078,166 391,910 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 801,196 297,958 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 675,030 339,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 590,433 0 0 0 0 0 60,000 0 0 0 675,030 339,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,187,000 107,218 148,542 89,434 468,387 5,090,013 10,465,858 12,197,699 4,808,188 1,477,707 2,857,679 633,009 2,203,628 942,163 434,510 445,843 467,477 3,176,707 151,818 6,050 4,044,679 2,005,690 15,260,400 1,031,597 902,897 5,535,856 10,933,335 15,434,406 4,960,006 1,483,757 11,470,076 0 0 590,433 60,000 0 1,014,030 0 0 1,532,194 33,030,145 3,393,818 6,636,479 4,676,355 587,845 22,342,366 37,766,500 3,981,663 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Report No. 16 Page 6 / 7 8.2 8.3 9.1 9.2 9.5 9.6 9.8 10.4 10.7 10.8 10.9 Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R&D Social protection Social protection n.e.c. 325 365 358 350 350 350 350 350 365 370 301 365 371 314 340 Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare EDUCATION SOCIAL PROTECTION 09 10 0 0 0 0 518,602 0 0 0 0 0 0 518,602 0 9,755,059 Highly Relevant Relevant Description Total 242,850 41,595 297,350 1,590 0 81,269 54,628 35,235 40,476 0 2,265 58,957 17,760 102,415 138,280 1,873,073 64,613 560,220 29,424,572 15,407,005 24,269,510 15,167,273 1,765,695 929,523 243,713 53,358 13,002,415 125,940 130,312 1,794,911 1,630,223 23,018 262,870 29,422,982 15,407,005 23,668,444 15,112,645 1,730,460 889,047 243,713 51,093 12,943,458 108,180 27,897 1,656,631 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,195 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 518,602 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,653,241 262,870 29,422,982 15,407,005 23,668,444 15,112,645 1,730,460 1,132,760 12,994,551 108,180 1,684,528 284,445 297,350 1,590 0 81,269 54,628 35,235 40,476 61,222 17,760 240,695 1,937,686 560,220 29,424,572 15,407,005 24,269,510 15,167,273 1,765,695 1,173,236 13,055,773 125,940 1,925,223 1,195 0 0 0 0 0 85,341,536 15,920,019 172,722 360,153 86,034,055 16,280,172 25,229,484 10,399,241 20,965,872 378,796,895 172,953,449 618,100,000 Neutral Capital and Financing 34,984,543Grant Total 31,365,113 551,750,344 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Description Amount Code Percent Report No. 16 Page 7 / 7 Highly Relevant Relevant Description Recurrent Total Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Code1 2 3 Direct Relevant Indirect Relevant Neutral 34984543 31365113 551750344 5.66 5.07 89.27 Report No. 17 Page 1 / 2 2013/14 2014/152012/13 Constituent Assembly / Legislature Parliament Courts Office of the Auditor General Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Law, Justice, Constituent Assembly and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Commerce and Supply Ministry of Science Technology and Environment Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Defence MInistry of Urban Development Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Education Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Irrigation 0 2,91,16 1,01 21,57,28 57,84,56 28,11,92 0 2,07,70 7,99,81,61 19,14,65 28,53,77 26,46,19 1,67,51 43,14,79 6,96,76 3,98 1,92,00 12,58,15 47,57,18 7,10 44,86,78 1,50,39,77 48,93,26,40 7,77,34 17,41,44 0 0 45,79 0 2,25,38,16 13,21,00 64,00 31,49,04 0 36,27,02 3,42,60 1,28,33,39 0 9,90,12 12,74,51 1,62,25,52 5,82,97 2,43,50,00 1,22,00 12,44,75 0 1,18,82,35 4,93,51,51 3,72,17,40 13,36,73 2,17,34 1,00,00 0 3,36,95 1,01 2,46,95,44 71,05,56 28,75,92 31,49,04 2,07,70 8,36,08,63 22,57,25 1,56,87,16 26,46,19 11,57,63 55,89,30 1,69,22,28 5,86,95 2,45,42,00 13,80,15 60,01,93 7,10 1,63,69,13 6,43,91,28 52,65,43,80 21,14,07 19,58,78 1,00,00 15,00 4,26,35 1,21 12,50,96 92,24,79 30,05,00 0 1,87,50 11,17,34,89 18,47,96 23,84,07 96,87 1,00,20,22 43,39,45 50,01,45 8,00,01 1,62,00 30,40,18 68,34,88 5,00 24,37,53 75,12,92 58,26,73,59 27,09,17 22,09,67 6,77 0 49,20 0 2,32,94,71 19,12,09 3,00,00 48,91,00 50,00 1,10,16,67 4,63,57 2,28,16,41 0 4,26,21 11,90,00 3,25,72,69 13,96,93 3,98,38,00 13,79,76 57,22,26 0 6,63,23,72 1,31,25,00 7,98,55,96 9,60,00 11,61,00 3,10 15,00 4,75,55 1,21 2,45,45,67 1,11,36,88 33,05,00 48,91,00 2,37,50 12,27,51,56 23,11,53 2,52,00,48 96,87 1,04,46,43 55,29,45 3,75,74,14 21,96,94 4,00,00,00 44,19,94 1,25,57,14 5,00 6,87,61,25 2,06,37,92 66,25,29,55 36,69,17 33,70,67 9,87 Revised Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total 0 4,95,00 2,40 43,33,25 2,06,21,90 30,91,00 0 1,87,50 11,44,93,89 17,18,35 49,58,90 1,09,20 55,11,02 46,37,10 66,27,00 31,42,09 2,50,00 38,74,92 66,87,62 30,25 40,78,97 68,13,82 62,71,48,52 51,49,43 15,80,31 24,00 0 50,00 0 3,23,76,91 1,02,73,44 0 1,44,50,00 0 2,26,11,84 4,80,00 1,68,87,18 0 63,28,38 6,00,00 3,84,76,35 0 4,49,10,46 12,09,05 70,11,77 0 3,52,56,03 1,67,00,00 4,91,00,07 26,70 25,15,25 2,50,00 0 5,45,00 2,40 3,67,10,16 3,08,95,34 30,91,00 1,44,50,00 1,87,50 13,71,05,73 21,98,35 2,18,46,08 1,09,20 1,18,39,40 52,37,10 4,51,03,35 31,42,09 4,51,60,46 50,83,97 1,36,99,39 30,25 3,93,35,00 2,35,13,82 67,62,48,59 51,76,13 40,95,56 2,74,00 EstimateActual Fiscal Year 2014/15 Grant / Subsidies Summary (Rs. in '000 ) Annex -17 Heading Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total 202 204 208 301 305 307 308 311 312 314 325 326 329 330 331 336 337 340 343 345 347 349 350 352 356 357 Report No. 17 Page 2 / 2 2013/14 2014/152012/13 Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health and Population Ministry of Labour and Employment MOF Staff Benifits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous 33,26,01 5,25,33,42 3,69,88,50 26,57,01 4,01,98 11,73,80 6,67,50 14,40,92,93 1,50,80,86 0 0 15,00 39,93,51 19,66,26,35 5,20,69,36 26,57,01 4,01,98 11,88,80 40,86,30 7,69,55,20 4,41,34,30 6,01,67 6,43,45 17,81,32 4,72,00 21,81,53,02 2,13,21,92 0 0 8,00 45,58,30 29,51,08,22 6,54,56,22 6,01,67 6,43,45 17,89,32 1,43,48,32,90 54,87,03,22 88,61,29,68 1,06,71,72,26 34,86,72,49 71,84,99,77 Revised Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total 42,94,30 9,83,29,58 5,15,64,08 5,30,00 0 74,00,00 98,76,84,40 11,50,60 17,19,87,25 2,93,11,97 0 0 0 50,19,63,25 54,44,90 27,03,16,83 8,08,76,05 5,30,00 0 74,00,00 1,48,96,47,65 EstimateActual Heading Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total Total Expenditure 358 365 370 371 601 602 Annex -18 S.No. Sector Up to FY 2013/14 At the end of FY 2014/15 Additional Performance 1 Agriculture Foodgrain Production M.Ton ('000) 9585 10210 625 2 Irrigation Additional Irrigation Facilities Hectare 1363120 1404820 41700 Plant production, purchase, distribution Unit 5077000 5077000 Plantation Hectare 3522 3522 Area Coverage of Community Forestry Percentage 29.16% 30.16% 1% Landless benefitted from Leasehold Forestry Household 65997 66998 1001 District HQ with Road Connection Nos. 73 73 Districts with Blacktopped Road Connection Nos. 59 62 3 Blacktopped Road K.M 10810 11335 525 Graveled Road K.M 5925 6423 498 Muddy Road K.M 8864 1380 516 New Track Opening K.M 227 227 Routine & Recurrent Maintenance K.M 8000 8000 Periodic Road Maintenance K.M 805 805 Bridge Construction Nos 1634 1735 101 Blacktopped Road K.M 490 540 50 Gravelled Road K.M 5120 5320 200 New Track Opening K.M 30100 30478 378 Rural Road Bridge Nos 110 173 63 Suspension Bridge Nos 5300 5700 400 6 Electricity Electricity Generation (adding to grid) MW 767 795 28 Electricity Transmission Line Extension K.M. 2640 2715 75 Individual Electricity Consumption KWH 116 125 9 Electricity Facility Consumers Nos 2850000 3100000 250000 Suspension Bridge Percentage 24 23 1 7 Alternative Energy Installation of Solar Ectricity System Nos 125000 125000 Electricity generation from micro & small hydro K.W. 26276 31276 5000 Construction of Bio gas plant for household use Nos 284090 311090 27000 Telephone Facility Consumers Nos 828828 800000 71172 Tele-density Per 100 persons 88.49% 90.00% 1.51% Radio Transmission Coverage Area (FM) Percentage 88.00% 90.00% 2.00% Television broadcasting coverage Percentage 72.00% 80.00% 8.00% School Admission Ratio in Primary Level Percentage 95.60% 99% 4.60% School Drop-out Ratio Percentage 4.70% 3% 1.70% Literacy Rate(above 6 years' age) Percentage 71% 88% 17% Girls in School (Class 1-12) Nos 3820913 4170913 350000 Toilet Construction Nos 5000 8000 3000 Class Room Construction Nos 248667 256820 8153 Schools With Internet facility Nos 5500 7143 1643 Community Owned School Nos 12421 12921 500 Delivery Care from Health Institutions Nos. 50 55 5 Uses of modern means of family planning Percentage 46 50 4 Pregnancy test up to 4th time Percentage 52 55 3 Receiving Maternity services from mid-wife Percentage 48 50 2 Maternal Mortality Rate Per 100 Thousand 170 170 Child Mortality Rate per thousand 54 54 New Born Child Mortality Rate per thousand 33 33 Infant Mortality Rate per thousand 46 46 Health Institutions with Birthing Center Nos 1000 1200 200 Patients having free hurt Surgery/ Treatment Nos 128000 168000 40000 11 Drinking Water Population with access to basic drinking water Percentage 87 90 3 Sanitation Population with access to basic sanitation Percentage 70 80 10 12 Urban Development Population Consuming Urban Facilities Percentage 22 24 2 10 Health 5 Rural Roads Bridge 8 Communication 9 Education Targeted Performance Indicators of FY 2014/15 Budget Performance Indicators 3 Forest 4 Roads All Weather Airport Nos 13 22 9 Tourists Arrival Nos 797000 900000 103000 Tourist's Stay Day 12.57 13 0.43 Tourist's expenditure USD per day 36.2 40 3.8 Tourism contribution to GDP Percentage 2.2 2.2 Allowance for Senior Citizen Nos 331195 991195 Single woman and widow Nos 679028 679028 Absolute and Partial handicap Nos 34302 34302 Endangered tribe Nos 12541 12541 Child Protection Grant Nos 570230 570230 15 Housing People Housing:Building Construction Nos 5841 7603 1762 16 River Taining River Taining K M 760 792 32 (a) Education 32600 85680 53080 (b) Labour 228741 246941 18200 (c) Industry 261509 272551 11043 17 Skill training Nos 13 Tourism 14 Social Security