Budget Speech of Fiscal Year 2017/18 Government of Nepal Ministry of Finance 29 May 2017 (Unofficial Translation) Budget Speech of Fiscal Year 2017/18 Delivered to Legislature-Parliament by Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Mr. Krishna Bahadur Mahara Monday 29 May 2017 Government of Nepal Ministry of Finance 2017 www.mof.gov.np 1 R ight Honorable Speaker, 1. Nepal has been an independent and sovereign country for centuries. Though our present is complex and challenging, the past is glorious and our future is bright and ful l of possibilities . A fter the promulgation of the Constitution of the Democratic Republic of Nepal through different kinds of movements including Peoples’ Movement, Peoples’ War and Madhesh Movement in different period of time, constitution ally people have been feeling sense of changes. Now, we are in the phase of implementation of the Constitution by increasing its universal acceptance. Though this is a complex and challenging task, we do not have any alternate to take it as a historical opportunity to move forward to build new Nepal. Despite getting wrangled into c onflict form time to time , we have resolved big problem s thr ough consensus; collaboration and logical end. 2. I, in the capacity of Finance Minister of Nepal, rise in this august parliament on 15 Jeth, the day on which this House declar ed Federal Democratic Republi c Nepal, to present the budget of Fiscal Year 2017/18 . On this glorious occasion, I pay my heartfelt tribute to those known and unknown martyrs who sa crificed their lives in different struggles including Peoples’ Movement, Peoples’ War and Madhesh Movement. Likewise, I would like to pay my respect to the injured and disappeare d c itizens. I salute all seniors who played leading role played i n the Political and Social transformation. 3. W e have leapt forward historically in the political field. The country has headed towards political stability by ending perennial transition after promulgation and implementation of the Constitution. After the local level e lection, the environment has been created where each citizen can be engaged in lo cal governance and development activities. The trust of citizen towards the political system has been restored. Our roadmap i s to fulfill peoples’ aspiration for rapid economic development by utilizing this time as an opportunity of socio -economic 2 transformation. To build self -reliant and independent economy, Healthy and Competitive Economic System is our starting point, Socialism-oriented Economy is our destination. 4. Encouraging economic growth rate , achievement noticed in power sector in the short period of time, positive economic indicators, favorable investment environment, implementation of the Constitution and formation of local levels have indicated that the whole economic development of the country has positively been initiated. 5. After completion of the first phase of local level election, foundation for democratization, the people s’ representatives have assumed their responsibilities. The process of the second phase election has begun. After the formation of the local level, it will not only implement the federalism and institutionalize the democracy but also ensure the direct participation of people in development of their own locality. O n thi s occ asion, I express my heartfelt gratitude to those voters who participated in the first phase election and to all those who played a vital role in making election a success, and also request for keeping the same spirit and support in the second phase election. 6. The annual budget, which functions as a leverage for economic development by providing policy guidance and facilitating through investment to bring effectiveness in economic, social and governance system to the country, is being presented in the house, when the country is in a special situation. As per the Constitutional provision, it is mandatory to present the annual budget which is a means to the journey towards economic prosperity in the legislature-parliament on 15 Jeth. On the other hand, the proce ss of formation of new Government has begun. The election code of conduct has become effective as the date for second phase of election is approaching closer. Because of the election code of conduct, I am in such a situation which does not allow me to announce new programs and allocate the resources for them. 3 7. I have taken this difficult situation as an opportunity to make the local level resourceful, since the local levels could select and implement their respective development programs and actions as guided by the Constitution . I am confident that it will establish the Nepali belief of “strong foundation makes the house stronger”. So, I have allocated the budget amount with the thought that “prosperous rural/urban is the base of prosperous Nepal”. Likewise, I have allocated the budget giving the priority to fiscal transfer to the Local Levels in the budget for Fiscal Year 2017/18, providing adequate resources for those ongoing programs and projects, accelerating the post-earth quake reconstruction and prioritizing two elections to be accomplished in coming fiscal year. 8. I have also allocated the budget with the objectives to upgrade Nepal to the Middle Income Country by 2030 by achieving Sustainable Development Goals and objectives set by the fourteenth Plan, to make economic growth sustainable by maintaining the current Fiscal Year’s growth rate and to complete the ongoing projects and programs speedily. 9. I have already presented the Economic Survey that included the economic indicators and descriptions, pr ogress of the diff erent ministries and the performance status of the Public Enterprises of the Fiscal Year 2016/1 7 yesterday in this Legislature Parliament. Before presenting the Budget and Programs of the Fiscal Year 2017/18, I would like to present the brief overview of the current economic status and economic indicators of the country. Right Honorable Speaker, 10. In the current Fiscal Year , the economic growth rate has been projected to be 6.9 percent, the highest in the past two and half decades. It is e stimated that the growth rate of the agriculture sector will be 5.3 percent. It was mainly by increased production of summer and winter corps due to favorable monsoon and the efforts put by the Government for eased and accessible availability of factors of production. Because of improved labour 4 relation and eased power supply, the growth rate of the Industrial Sector will be 11 percent , which was negative in the last Fiscal Year. Likewise, service se ctor will grow by 6.9 percent. 11. The inflation rate has be en declined to 3.5 percent in the first nine months of this Fiscal Year which remained high for a long time. It is estimated that the annual inflation rate will be lower than 6 percent in this Fiscal Year. It has eased the general consumers' livelihood and also supported to expand the economic activities as the production cost has been decreased. 12. The post -earthquake reconstruction, new construction and rehabilitation activities have started to speed up though it was a bit slow in the initial phase. The personal housing grant to the earthquake victims has already been increased to Rs. 300 thousand increasing additional grant Rs. 100 thousand . More than 95 percent of the earthqua ke victims of the 14 highly affected districts have received Rs. 50,000 as the first tranche of the grant. Similarly, more than 50,000 personal houses are on the phase of construction. The distribution of the first tranche of the grant in the remaining ear thquake affected 17 districts has already been started. This grant has been managed to distribute through bank accounts. 13. The capital expenditure in the first ten months of this Fiscal Year has been notably increased, though public expenditure has not been increased as expected as compared to the same period of the previous years. Though, there is a little sluggishness in the capital expenditure during last two months due to local election, it is estimated that there will be 84 percent expenditure out of total capital expenditure by the end of this Fiscal Year. 14. Internal resource mobilization process is being improved sequentially. The total revenue collection by the end of this Fiscal Year will be Rs. 580.98 billion which is 103 percent of the revenue target. There has been a gradual improvement in the foreign aid mobilization. The d evelopment partners of Nepal 5 have already declared to increase in the annual contributory amount. 15. Internal Capital Market has improved. The NEPSE indicator, which is a measure of c apital market, has reached to 1615 point on May 28, 2017. In the Infrastructure summit and International Investment Conference, the Foreign Investors pledged to invest more than Rs. 1400 billion. Due to the improvement in liquidity in the Banks and Financial sectors, the loan flow to the private sector has increased by 15.6 percent in the first nine months of the current Fiscal Year though there was a little contraction in the initial months. It has been vital to expand the economic activities through increment in private investment. 16. Most of the indicators of external sector are positive and encouraging. The entire balance of payment in the first nine months of the current fiscal year is surplus by Rs. 50.64 billion. The remittance inflow has been increased by 6.3 percent compared to the same period of the previous year due to which the total remittance has reached to Rs. 511.93 billion. In the first nine months of the current Fiscal Year, the Foreign Exchange Reserve is equal to Rs. 1057.38 billion. This is sufficient to afford the import of the goods for 13.3 months and the import of both goods and services for 11.5 months. 17. Long standing impasse in the construction process of Kathmandu Terai Madhesh Fast Track, due to non-fixing of construction modality, has been initiated. Construction modality of country's biggest reservoir based Budhigandaki Hydropower Project has been finalized. Load-shedding faced by all Nepalese in past years has almost become a history now. An initiative has been taken to have benefit s from the economic growth of both neighboring countries by maintaining equidistance relation. 18. Besides, having overall economic indicators positive, increasing trade deficit has remained as a challenge. In the first nine months of the current Fiscal Year , export has increased just by 12.1 percent in comparison to export that increased by 39.7 percent. In this period, the trade deficit has increased by 42.7 percent 6 amounting Rs 671.2 billion whereas the import-export ratio has been limited to 7.6 percent. Right Honorable Speaker, 19. Despite these positive achievements, Nepalese economy is not without challenges. The main challenges of the economy are as follows:(a) Implementation of Federalism Management of federalism is new experiment for us as we are exercising unitary form of government for centuries. Capacity development of organizational, technical and resource mobilization and resources management of infrastructure development of newly formulated and in the process of formulation of local level and provincial government which will be formulated in the next fiscal year, is challenging. (b) Enhancement of Implementation Capacity Projects are not completed on time due to inadequate project preparation, week managerial capacity, weak financial and technical ca pacity of contractors and legal, policy and procedural complications. Similarly , implementation capacity of the project is weak due to lack of enthusiasm of stakeholders to work in the project implementation, reluctance to achieve results, and lack of overall humanitarian capacity. Therefore, by bringing allocated effeteness and achieved performance in accordance with target is challenging. (c) Increase internal production and productivity It is challenging to increase production and productivity by providing access to producer over means of production and to maintain collaborative approach of public, private and cooperative sector. Similarly , to ensure internal and external market is another challenge through the effective market management. 7 (d) Development of formal economy The actual size of the economy has not been identified due to payment of formal transaction through informal channel of payment. The payment of business transaction has been made out of banking channel and a large volume of economy is still out of formal sector. So in order to take all economic transactions under formal channel and banking system, campaigning for all Nepalese to open a bank account is also challenging. (e) Time bound reconstruction Even after two years, we have a bitter reality that most of earthquake victims are not able to build their houses. There has been delay in reconstruction of cultural heritages sites and other structures damaged by the earthquake. Addressing this situation, timely completion of reconstruction and converting reconstruction into new construction is challenging. (f) Quality of public construction Constructed infrastructures have been dilapidated within a short time due to lack of intensive supervision of construction work, weak capacity of contractor and lack of intensive monitoring of construction. The quality of public construction is weak. To reform and improve the quality of public construction and stop overspending is challenging. (g) Enhance Governance capacity Public service cannot be easily delivered with the lack of accountability and awareness of responsibility to the public. Therefore, compliance with the law, effective service delivery, enhanced and capable institutional governance for effective service delivery is a challenge. 8 Right Honorable Speaker, 20. Despite these several challenges, improvement of electricity supply by removing load shedding, efforts made to remove barriers in the execution of National pride and priority projects have created enabling environment to support economic activities at the local level and the basis to increase economic growth. In this context, I have prepared the budget in view of utilizing current opportunities and overcoming the challenges. Following are the objectives of this budget:• to support execution of the Constitution, • to attain sustainable, inclusive and high economic growth, • to maintain macroeconomic stability, and • to enhance access of general public to the service provided by the state. 21. In order to attain above objectives, I have given following priorities of the upcoming budget:• execution of federalism, • reconstruction of infrastructures damaged by the earthquake, • increase employment opportunities, • increase in production and productivity, • speedy implementation of national pride projects, • agriculture modernization, commercialization and mechanization, • hydroelectric production, transmission and distribution, • construction and improvement of road, railway and international airport, • development and promotion of tourism infrastructure, 9 • investment on education, health, drinking water and sanitation, • smooth operations and regulations of bank and financial institutions, • enhance supply, storage and distribution of necessary consumable goods, and • improvement of public a dministration and service delivery. Right Honorable Speaker, 22. By considering these challenges, objectives and priorities, now, I present the program and budget for the upcoming fiscal year. Execution of Constitution and completion of peace process 23. Legal and policy arrangement will be made to exercise of fundamental rights as provisioned in the Constitutions promulgated by the Constitution al assembly with a sacrificial struggle of the Nepalese people. Constitution al commissions as per the provisions of Constitution will be formulated at the earliest. 24. To ensure easy access to justice for all, implementation of second five years strategic plan for Attorney General Office and third five years strategic plan for Judicia ry will be implemented effectively. I have allocated necessary budget for this purpose. 25. Capacity development of Constitutional bodies will be enhanced in accordance with the federal structure. Necessary study will be conducted to extend the structure of these bodies and necessary resources have been provisioned for their smooth performance. 26. I have allocated sufficient budget to conduct election of federal parliament and state assembly within the specified time as stipulated in the Constitution, which are crucial to bring peace process to a logical end. 27. To conclude conflict period cases at the earliest, capacity development of Truth and Reconciliation Commission and 10 Commission for the Investigation of the Disappeared will be enhanced. Continuity has been given for regular work of compensation provided to Martyrs and Disappeared members and other conflict affected victims. I have made an arrangement to implement program related to d evelopment for peace programs, local peace committee, and reconstruction and rehabilitations program through the local level. Implementation of Federalism and Fiscal Transfer 28. This year, Honorable, Members of Parliament if you try to search your plan and programs in the budget book you will not be able to find it. However, you can definitely see how much resources h ave been allocated to the Rural Municipality/ Municipality of your respective constituencies. By providing adequate resources to capacitate local level governments for service delivery and carry out development activities themselves, so as to make them fe el that they are getting services from Singh Durbar even in the rural and urban areas. I have allocated resources to local level through the fiscal transfer to perform those activities which are currently carried out by the sectoral ministries but mentione d in the schedule 8 of the Constitution of Nepal. 29. Due to lack of Natural Resource and Fiscal Commission formed to oversee the financial transfer, revenue distribution and g rant recommendation as mandated by the Constitution of Nepal, I have provisioned the resources for the local level on the basis of the equalization system for uniform grant distribution. The grant will be transferred on the basis of population, development status and cost adjusted area. To enhance the feel ing of federalism and the right to select development on their own, rural municipalities will receive minimum of Rs. 100 million and maximum of Rs. 390 million, municipalities will reached minimum of Rs.150 million and maximum of Rs.430 million, sub-metropolitan cities minimum of Rs. 400 million and maximum of Rs. 630 million and metropolitan cities minimum of Rs 560 million and maximum Rs 1. 24 billion as per the grant allocation. 11 30. Besides the equalization financial grant, I have transferred conditional grant totaling Rs 76.41 billion to the local level. Under this arrangement, rural municipalities will receive minimum of Rs 12 million and maximum of Rs 172.20 million, municipalities will receive minimum of Rs 39.50 million and maximum of Rs. 312.70 million, sub -metropolitan cities minimum of Rs 148 million and maximum of Rs. 310 million and the metropolitan cities minimum of Rs 281.2 million to maximum of Rs 783.9 million. 31. I have provisioned that relevant sectoral ministries will be provided authority to support projects and programs with budget up to Rs 5 million in rural municipality, up to Rs 10 million in municipalities, and up to Rs 20 million in sub-metropolitan and metropolitan cities. I have also provisioned the budget to be transferred to respective local levels by Mid-August and sectoral ministries will provide relevant technical support for the projects and programs. 32. As per prevailing local law, budget and program based on revenue generated and funds received from the fiscal transfer will be approved by the respective council meetings of the rural municipality and municipalities and will be implemented at the local level. 33. In absence of provincial governments, I have made provision for the federal government to execute activities as listed in schedule6 of Constitution of Nepal. However, I have made an arrangement to provide direct transfer of resources for the establishment of provincial government as the election for state government is planned in the coming fiscal year. 34. I have alloc ated resources for the Government of Nepal for the execution of actions mandated under the list of federal power, concurrent powers of Federa l and State, and concurrent powers of Federal, State and Local Level under schedule 5, 7 and 9 of the Constitution of Nepal. I have made arrangement that the work implemented by the Government of Nepal and the L ocal Level is well coordinated and complementary to each other. 12 Technical assistance for activities implemented by State and Local Level will be provided by the Division and District level office of the Government of Nepal if required. Program Transfer to Local Level 35. I have handed over the programs on commercial agriculture production pocket and block development, Agricultural Crop and Production related activities, Agriculture Market Infrastructure Construction Support Program and Fishery Development Program, One W ard one A griculture and Livestock Technician Program, Small Irrigation, Agriculture Promotion Service Program and Agriculture Income Generation targeted programs under the Prime Minister Agriculture Modernization Project at the local level. 36. I have made an arrangement for most of the programs related to livestock development services, i.e. piggery and poultry farming cooperative program, livestock market promotion program, livestock feed development program, livestock health regulation program, livestock services awareness program and Karnali Zone livestock development program to be implemented at the local level. 37. Programs on Medicinal Plant Development, Tree Improvement, Tree Plantation and Private Forest Program, Community and Leasehold Forest Development as well as local level implemented programs on soil conservation and community development along with forest/watershed management projects will be implemented at the local level which were previously implemented by the Department of Forests and the Department of Plant Resources. 38. I have transferred programs on underground shallow tube -wells, irrigation renovation and maintenance project, new technol ogy based irrigation projects and prosperous Terai-Madesh Irrigation Development Program, and special land based river control program and valley market conservation program for its implementation at the local level. 13 39. I have transferred budget for the roads of regional and the importance for tourism, construction and improvement of other urban road projects and Kathmandu valley road improvement projects to the respective local level. I have managed to implement ongoing tourism infrastructure development programs of local level by themselves. 40. The majority of the existing local level projects run by the Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development will be transferred to local level. I have transferred town sector infrastructure development programs, waste management technical center, rural water supply and sanitation program, local transportation infrastructure sectoral program, decentralization rural infrastructure and livelihood projects, small irrigation, river control and other infrastructure, golden thousand days program, local road improvement program, environment-friendly local governance program and roads connecting to economic center as well as roads connecting two districts to the local level. 41. Similarly, I have transferred the programs along wi th budget related to Buddhist Philosophy and Stupa Development Committee, academy for the development of indigenous people and development committee for the improvement of deprived, disadvantaged and dalit classes to the local level. 42. I have transferred the budget for the salary of teachers of Grades 1 t0 10 of basic and secondary level, grant for remuneration of school staffs and remuneration as well as operational expenses of supporting staffs to child development program, grant for the operation and ma nagement of schools up to secondary level, teaching-aid materials and book corner programs as well as budget related continuous student learnings, the purchase of books to be provided free of cost for the student up to secondary levels, student scholarshi ps as well as Dalit scholarship and the scholarship for the student from Karnali region to the local level. 43. I have transferred the budget related to the operational expenses of institution of primary health care providers, health center, health posts, sub-health posts and A yurveda pharmacies as well 14 as the salary and allowances of associated staffs. I have transferred the budget of operational expenses as well as the salary and allowances of the staffs of district hospitals, national health education inform ation and communication program implemented through primary health centers, tuberculosis control program and A yurveda service program to local level along with associated programs by retaining the existing scope of work of district hospitals. 44. I have transferred the expenses related to maternalchild, nutrition, vaccination, malaria control, strengthening hospital services, remote district telemedicine program, family health program, medicine, vaccine, material repackaging under the integrated district health program to the local level. 45. I have allocated required resources for the ongoing construction of health centers and for the inspection, monitoring and supervision to be carried out by Federal Government in order to ensure the quality of health services to the district public health office. 46. I have transferred the majority of works related to drinking water rehabilitation and regulation program, drinking water and quality improvement program, programs related to large and medium scale drinking water pr ojects, minimization of the impact of climate change and appropriate technology promotion program to be implemented by local level. 47. I have transferred activities related to cultural protection and promotion to be implemented by local level. I have transfe rred women development program including women awareness development program to be implemented by local level. 48. I have transferred sport infrastructure construction programs under the national sports council and some programs associated with national youth council to the local level. Similarly, I have transferred sport competition to be conducted at the local level under the sports development program to the local level. 15 Post-earthquake Reconstruction –People's Right to Live Safe 49. I have given a high priority for the reconstruction of the physical infrastructures damaged by the earthquake. Reconstruction work will be completed within stipulated time by enhancing capacity of reconstruction -related entities. I have allocated Rs. 146.18 billion for the post -earthquake reconstruction and rehabilitation programs to be spent through National Reconstruction Authority in addition to the programs implemented by related ministries. I have simplified the process in order to avoid existing problem in the implementation of the budget of reconstruction. 50. Distribution of second and third tranches will be expedited for the reconstruction of earthquake affected private houses on the basis of the progress of construction. Grievances of those victims excluded in the beneficiary list will be addressed immediately. 51. Reconstruction of damaged archeological heritages will be carried out with high priority. Local and traditional materials will be used for the reconstruction of such heritages to the extent possible. The reconstruction of trekking trails having importance in the view point of eco-tourism will be prioritized. Local infrastructure and rural roads in affected areas will be gradually upgraded. 52. Programs for required skilled manpower will be conducted in order to carry out qualitative reconstruction. Required technicians will be mobilized in local level in order to expedite reconstruction and new construction. Concerned local levels will also be made involved in expediting the pace of reconstruction. Reconstruction of the buildings related to public service delivery and other public buildings will be made gender and disable friendly. 53. Integrated settlement will be constructed by transferring the identified risk-prone settlements. Basic infrastructures including drinking water and sanitation, roads, schools, health post will be constructed in such settlements. The reconstruction of 16 earthquake affected education and health related structures will be completed within two years. I have provisioned resources for research and developme nt related to earthquake resistant physical infrastructure construction in order to minimize the risk in the days to come. Acceleration in the Implementation of the National Pride Projects 54. I have provisioned adequate resources for the on -going national pride projects. A separate legal and procedural framework will be made in order to facilitate the implementation of the projects. 55. Upper Tamakoshi Hydro Power Project will be completed in upcoming fiscal year. An additional 456 MW electricity will be connected in the national grid from this project. I have allocated Rs.500 million for this project. The process of constructing Budhi Gandaki Hydro Power Project will be initiated under the Engineering Procurement Construction and Financing (EPCF) model. I have a llocated Rs. 10.17 billion for the distribution of compensation and operational expenses for this project. 56. The Second Phase of the Rani Jamara Kulariya Irrigation Project will be started in upcoming fiscal year by completing its first phase. Tunnel work of multi purposive project of Bheri Babai Diversion will be immediately commenced. Construction work of Sikta Irrigation Project will be completed within two years. The construction work of western part of Babai Irrigation Project will be expedited. I have allocated Rs. 5.16 billion for these four projects. 57. The bidding process of Nijgadh Second International Airport will be started in upcoming fiscal year by analyzing the previous detail project report. The construction work of ongoing Gautam Buddha Regiona l International Airport will be completed by Mid-April 2018. The construction work of Pokhara Regional International Airport will be started in upcoming fiscal year and will be completed within four years. I have allocated Rs. 13.72 billion for these three airports. 17 58. The reconstruction of Kathmandu Terai-Madhesh Fast Track has been arranged to be completed within four years by Nepal Army. Rt. Honorable Prime Minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal 'Prachanda' has laid foundation stone of the project just yesterday. I ha ve allocated Rs. 10.14 billion for this project in upcoming fiscal year. The construction work of the first phase of 518 KM section of the Postal Highway will be started aiming to complete it within two years. I have allocated Rs. 4.27 billion for this project. Necessary resources will be provisioned for the Second Phase of Postal Highway after preparing detail project report. I have provisioned resources for the opening of remaining section of Koshi Corridor under the North South Public Road to be completed in upcoming fiscal year. I have given continuity to the construction work of Jomsom -Korola and Ridi-BaglungBeni-Jomsom section under the Kali Gandaki Corridor. I have allocated Rs. 2.3 billion for three sections of the North South Public Road including Karnali, Kali Gandaki and Koshi. 59. I have allocated Rs.300 million in order to connect Humla District Headquarter with Khulalu-Laifu -Kalikot-Simikot Road under construction by Nepal Army and to connect Dolpa Headquarter with road network within a year. I have allocated Rs. 4.03 billion for the completion the black-topping of roads and the construction of bridge of ongoing Mid Hill Highway with priority. 60. The Detail Project Report of Bardibas-Mechi Section and Butwal-Mahakali Section under the East West Electric Railway, Metro Railway and Mono Rail development project and Kathmandu-Birgunj Railway will be prepared. The construction work of railway track of Bardibas -Simara section will be continued. I have allocated Rs. 4.02 billion for this purpose. 61. The impleme ntation of Pashupati area and Lubini area Master Plan will be expedited. The implementation modality will be prepared by formulating the second phase of comprehensive Master Plan of Pashupati area and wider Lumbini area Master Plan. I have allocated Rs. 1.16 billion for these two projects. 18 62. The construction work of most– awaited Melamchi drinking water project will be completed by MidOctober. 170 million liters of water will be distributed inside the ring -road of Kathmandu Valley by upcoming Dashain. Infras tructure construction work in order to bring 510 million liters water inside the Kathmandu Valley by adding daily 340 million liters of water from Yangri and Larke River under the second phase of Melamchi drinking water project will be initiated. I have allocated Rs. 6.57 billion for Melamchi drinking water project. 63. I have allocated Rs. 1.92 billion in order to implement activities related to comprehensive Master Plan of President Chure Protection Program. Modern Agriculture: Sustainable base for Domestic Production and Economic Growth 64. I believe that qualitative economic reform cannot be attained without the commercialization and modernization of agriculture which contributes about 30 percent in the GDP of Nepal and is the major profession of two third of N epalese population. Therefore, I have continued the improvement of programs related to agricultural sectors in upcoming fiscal year in order to increase the production by modernizing agricultural sector. I have prioritized the programs identified by agricu lture development strategy in order to achieve the integrated development of the agriculture sector. The sustainable foundation of economic growth will be prepared by making the agriculture system scientific, commercialized, environment and eco-friendly. 65. Agricultural production will be enhanced through the proper distribution of factors of production by identifying location specific competitive and comparative advantageous products. Special programs for the protection and development of local crops will be carried out. The provision will be made to assure technical, financial and monetary incentives including timely supply of all sorts of agro-equipment to the farmers. The presence of middle man will be discouraged in order to ensure 19 the fair price and market access of the products of the framers by establishing appropriate value chain. Large scale cold store and storage centers will be constructed by Public, Private and Cooperative sectors by maintaining provincial balance. Market access of farmers will be increased by constructing infrastructure of agricultural product market nearby Mid Hill Highway and North South Highway. Policy to minimize cost of market access and transaction cost of the farmers will be adopted by establishing agriculture product center and nurseries in certain distance and expanding agriculture roads from farmland to the market. Minimum reference prices of product will be fixed as required. Branding of Nepalese agricultural products will be initiated to export in the world market by expanding the organic farming. 66. Policies will be formulated and implemented immediately in order to reflect the concept of collective farming and contract farming into action. Integrated technical assistance will be provided for the farmers associated with collective farming. The construction of large -scale cold store and storage centers by Public, Private and Cooperative sectors will be continued by maintaining the provincial balance. 67. A study will be carried out in order to provide contributory pension for farmers by classifying them on the basis of land area and ownership. On this basis, farmers will be gradually participated in social security program. Agricultural and Livestock will be developed towards commercialization in order to attract youth in agric ulture sector. I have continuity to the premium grant for the agricultural and livestock insurance. This type of insurance can also be insured through cooperatives by enhancing the capacity of agricultural cooperatives. Agricultural insurance service will be expanded throughout the country by integrating the available insurance services at present. 68. Dairy industry will be established with the participation of farmer's cooperatives in order to be self-reliant in dairy products. Advanced breeding center will be established in potential places 20 so as to increase the production for the improvement cow breeding. 69. I have given continuity to the provision of 5 percent subsidy in the interest of agriculture and livestock loan. I have also given continuity to all the subsidies and facilities including the fertilizer and improved seeds. All sorts of subsidies provided to agriculture will be managed through farmers' own bank account. 70. I have allocated Rs. 30.40 billion for the agriculture and livestock sector programs. Irrigation 71. The construction work of large and ongoing irrigation projects will be expedited. Nadi Mathiko Gara Hara Bhara Irrigation Project (Green fields above the rivers) will be expanded in order to irrigate the dry plain field near above the river. Small irrigation program project will be implemented as per the demands of farmers. Irrigation facility will be provided through appropriate technology in the super zone, zone, pocket and blocks of agriculture. 72. Currently operating irrigation projects including Sunsari Morang, Bagmati, Kamla will be repaired to utilize its full capacity. Rehabilitation of mega irrigation projects will be continued. SamriddhaTarai-Madhesh Irrigation Project and Medium-size irrigation program will be continued. I have apportioned Rs. 27.41 billion for the irrigation program. Forest and Land Management 73. Program to conserve and manage the forest, watershed and biodiversity will be implemented. Carbon emission will be reduced through forest management, conservation and forestation and by preventing deforestation and forest degradation. Opportunity of receiving international payment will be sought. People's participation in controlling forest fire will be sought and ensured. I have given continuity to the initiation of conserving the rare , endangered and indigenous animals and 21 plants through the establishment of zoological and botanical garden. 74. Natural resources will be conserved and managed through forestation, land and watershed conservation. People's participation will be mobilized for watershed conservation and management. Natural lake will be conserved and managed. 75. Land Use Act will be submitted to the current session of the legislative parliament to implement the land use policy. Scientific land classification will be made on the basis of its uses and necessary arrangement will be made to ensure the use of the particular land only for the categorized purpose. Ministry of Urban Development will prepare a standard norms to control the plotting of agriculture land for residential use and enforce it from the beginning of the coming fiscal year. 76. I have allocated sufficient budget to complete the rehabilitation programs of freed kamaiya (bounded laborer) and haliya (ploughman) within the coming Fiscal Year. 77. I have apportioned Rs. 15.34 billio n for the forest sector and Rs 6.80 billion for the land reform and management. Promotion and Regulation of Cooperatives 78. Public-Cooperative Partnership concept will be applied in national production growth programs for cottage and small industries. All cooperatives have to work on the concept of "One cooperative Key Identity" considering their local potential products and industries. 79. Cooperative and Poverty Alleviation Information System will be introduced and organizational structure, financial transacti on, and financial position of cooperatives as well as statistic on poverty alleviation will be captured in the system. 80. Cooperative market network will be established to ensure the fair prices for the product produced by cooperatives. Such cooperative markets will be extended in major market center of the country. 22 81. Various activities will be conducted to increase awareness and provide information on cooperative through financial literacy, knowledge and skill to operate cooperatives organizations and developing saving habit. 82. New Cooperative Act will be promulgated incorporating timely changes to existing legal provisions related to cooperatives following principles and values of cooperatives. Industrial Development: Foundation for Infrastructure 83. Favorable investment environment will be created for investors in the projects pledged in International investment conferences. Necessary infrastructures will be prepared to make Nepal an investment attractive destination. 84. Establishment of employment generating an d export oriented industries will be promoted. Investment promotion programs will be organized abroad. Interagency coordination will be increased and administrative procedures related to foreign investment will be made clearer and simplified. Community of Nonresident Nepalese will be encouraged to invest in Nepal. 85. Grant will be provided to selected industries promoted by young entrepreneur for the necessary technological and market promotion. Youth entrepreneurship program will be continued. Activities suc h as awareness, skill development, appropriate technology, easy access to loan with subsidized interest rate and market development will be conducted under the small and cottage industry promotion program. 86. The skill and capacity of women entrepreneurs who have gained experiences in operation of priority sector industries will be developed and technology will be promoted. Woman entrepreneur promotion award will be provided based on excellence. Entrepreneurship development will be emphasized in targeted backward rural woman. In order to promote micro, cottage and small industries based on locally available resources, skills and demand, capacity in required technology, management and market promotion will be enhanced. 23 87. Concessional loan will be provided for the citizen who are under poverty line to develop entrepreneurship upon the recommendation of local level body. 88. Investments will be attracted in mine exploration, development and production. Capacity expansion of mines based industries such as cement, marble, magnesite, co pper and iron will be incentivized. Processing and export of stone gems and jewels will be promoted. Further studies will be done in potential areas of natural gas and petroleum. 89. Special Economic Zone will be brought into operation. Studies will be conducted to establish additional industrial zones. Access road, electricity transmission lines and other infrastructures will be developed for cement, iron and copper industries and mines. 90. Production and pr omotion of prioritized goods identified in Nepal Integrated Trade Strategy will be carried out. Bhagat Sarbajit Dalit Development will be continued with enhanced effectiveness. Environment friendly industries will be further promoted. Commerce and Trade 91. In addition to effective implementation of Commerce Policy, 2015 and Nepal Integrated Trade Strategy, 2016, market diversification and expansion of exportable goods which has comparative advantage and competitiveness will be emphasized along with the production and promotion of exportable goods. 92. Production, development and capacity enhancement related activities will be implemented for high value, low volume and highly exportable goods such as Pashmina, coffee, tea, ginger, honey, cardamom and herbs. Access to international trade will be increased by utilizing opportunities provided by the bilateral, regional and multilateral treaties and agreements. 93. Programs will be prepared in a way to gain maximum benefit from the participation of Nepal in Belt and Road Initiative started by Chinese government. Transport networks will be 24 developed to connect two neighboring countries India and China and new economic zones will be established in various places. 94. Existing export promotion incentive will be reviewed which was provided with the aim of reducing trade deficit by promoting export taking its effectiveness into account. Well -equipped laboratories will be established with all facility to certify quality of exportable goods. 95. Integrated check post will be brought into operation in Birgunj from the beginning of coming fiscal year. Ongoing construction of integrated check posts will be expedited in Biratnagar, Bhairahawa and Nepalgunj. Supply Management 96. Easy and accessible supply system will be established for supply of quality goods and services in the market with effective monitoring mechanism. Consumer empowerment and awareness campaign program will be expanded all over the country together with protection of consumer right. 97. Raksaul-Amlekhgunj pipeline construction wor k will be continued to ease the supply of petroleum products. In order to ensure easy and regular supply of petroleum products, construction of storage facility will be started in seven provinces with minimum storage capacity to meet demand of petrol for at least 90 days and LP Gas for at least 45 days. 98. I have continuity to subsidy in transportation of food in Karnali and in other remote areas to ensure its regular supply and transportation of Iodized salt. 99. I have allocated Rs.10.96 billion for all programs implemented in industry, commerce and supply sector. Sustainable development and foundation of prosperity: Infrastructure Road, transport and Railways 100. I have continuity to the road infrastructure program to expand all socio-economic activities, increase access to service delivery, 25 connect province capitals to national capital city, and expedite construction of ongoing mega projects and quality road infrastructure. I have allocated Rs. 89.50 billion for c onstruction of roads except the road infrastructure to be implemented by local level. 101. Minimum two lanes and black topped road construction and up gradation policy will be adopted from coming fiscal year for the construction and up gradation of all strategic road under federal and province level. 102. Preliminary work has already been started to the construction of Naghdhunga tunnel road under Thankot -Naubise road section. I have allocated Rs 5.54 billion to prepare its design and to initiate the construction. I have allocated Rs 3 billion to construct road to link TeraiMadesh districts headquarters to East-West highway with priority. I have allocated Rs 3.15 billion to complete the construction of DharanChatara-Gaighat-KatariSindhuli-Hetauda road within thre e years. I have allocated Rs 7.11 billion for expansion of Narayaanghat -Butawal section of East-west highway to four lanes. I have allocated Rs 2.56 billion to complete the expansion and improvement of Mugling Narayanghat road within coming fiscal year. I have allocated Rs 2.9 billion to complete the expansion of Rani-Ithari Dharan Jatahi-Janakpur, Birgunj -Pathlaeya,Belhiya-Butawal and Mohana-Attariya commercial roads in 6 lanes within 2 years. Feasibility study will be carried out for construction of Himali highway in high mountain and Himali sector. 103. Construction of bridges will be expedited to complete within time. I have made necessary arrangement with additional resources to give continuity to the construction and up gradation of strategic road and br idges. Construction of motorable bridge in Mahakali River will be initiated in coming fiscal year. 104. I have allocated budget for detailed feasibility study of KerungKathmandu-Pokhara-Lumbini Railway to link Lumbini: holy birth place of Gautam Buddha to China via Railway. 26 105. Embossed number plates will be executed to all vehicles within five years. Electrical vehicle will be emphasized. National Transport Policy, Road Safety Act, Engineering Staff College Act and Vehicle and Transport Act will be formulated, am ended and enforced. Foundation of Energy Development: Brighter Nepal Campaign 106. I have continuity to the ongoing the ongoing energy development program. Additional 17 thousand Megawatt electricity will be generated within seven years through" Brighter Nepal Campaign" under " Nepalko Pani Jantako Lagani" program. Nation will be made self -reliant in electricity through the investment of Federal, Provincial and Local government, people working in foreign countries and fighter of peoples' movement and injured and general peoples, public enterprises capital and foreign investment. Dependency over petroleum product will be reduced through the necessary production and distribution of electricity to meet the demand of household and industrial sector, replacing cooking gas, and using electric transport. 107. Construction of at least 500 Megawatt Hydro-electric projects will be started with the investment of Civil Servant, Nepal Army, Nepal Police, Armed Police Force, Teacher and other public servants. 108. Adequate sources will be mobilized to complete all ongoing electricity generation, transmission and distribution project on time. Ongoing Chameliya hydroelectricity project and Kulekhani III Hydroelectricity project will be completed in coming fiscal year. New electricity purchase rate will be applied for peaking and reservoir projects to attract the domestic private investment. 109. Construction of all Reservoir and peaking projects including Nalsingh Gad, Veri -1, Jagdulla, Utterganga, Noumure, Sunkoshi-2and 3, Dudhkoshi, tamor will be expedited simultaneously. Feasibility study and development of pump 27 storage type Hydroelectricity projects will be conducted in order to meet the high electricity demand in peak hours. 110. Necessary procedures will be formulated and implemented to attract private sector for the construction of transmission line under public -private partnership. I have arranged adequate resources for full utilization of Dhalkeber -Mujafarpur Cross Border transmission line and to upgrade capacity of Dhalkebar substations to 40 0 KV. Construction of 400 KV capacity Butwal-Gorrakhpur Cross Border transmission line will be commenced in coming Fiscal Year. Ongoing Hetauda Dhalkebar-Duhabi transmission line will be upgraded into the capacity of 400 KV and construction will be completed within 2 years. 111. Electricity leakage reduction and control program will be implemented as campaign. In order to minimize electricity leakage and electricity related accidents, construction of underground electricity distribution lines will be started in few urban areas of Kathmandu valley. In order to strengthen electricity distribution system, smart meter and grid system will be continued to implement. Technical loss of electricity will be minimized by improving electricity distribution lines in Kathmandu valley. 112. In order to assess the actual hydroelectricity potential of Nepal, current study undertaken by Water and Energy Commission will be completed. I have allocated Rs. 62.47 billion for programs of energy sector. Urban Infrastructure: Foundation of Development 113. Urban Development Programs will be expedited as per Urban Development Strategy approved by Government of Nepal. I have made necessary arrangement for the implementation of urban infrastructure development programs with higher priority in coming Fiscal Year. I have allocated Rs. 30.48 billion for this purpose. 28 114. Since, it is difficult and costly to provide public services in the scattered settlements; I have given continuity to the integrated settlement development program considering the need of transferring the earthquake effected settlements and settlements situated in the geographically vulnerable areas as well. 115. Satellite cities will be developed in all municipalities of Kathmandu Valley in a coordinated way. Initiation of developing one mega city in each State will be taken. Study will be carried out to for developing well managed cities in the mountain region. 116. I have given continuity to smart and food green city development program with full of urban infrastructure and residential facilities. a program of establishing 20 new city will be expedited with priority along 10 important locations of Mid Hill Highway and Terai-Madesh Postal Highway. I have allocated Rs11.01 billion to expedite the implementation of ongoing urban infrastructur e development program in the headquarters of 20 districts in Terai-Madesh. 117. In order to access to housing for all, I have given continuity to People’s Housing (Janata Avas) program which is under implementation targeting the people from rural areas like minorities, lagging behind, Dalits, endangered, elders, disables, urban poor and marginalized groups. A arrangements will be made for the landless people to included them in this program. I have allocated Rs. 2.44 billion for this program. 118. A policy for integrated government office construction will be followed through land pooling system so as integrate the scattered land and make the public service delivery effective and faster by taking record of all government land and buildings. Infrastructure will be developed in state and local level to for integrated public service delivery as per one stop shop concept. Local and Rural Infrastructure 119. I have given continuity to projects to be implemented as per the Honorable parliamentarian selection for which Rs.5 million will 29 be made available and also to Constituency Development Program for which Rs. 30 million will be made available through elected parliamentarians from every constituency. I have given continuity to constituency level roads program and allocated Rs. 3 billion for this purpose. Tourism Infrastructure 120. I have given continuity to tourism programs with some modifications for next fiscal year. I have given continuity to master plan implementation program for touristic rich places to develop them as major tourist destinations and to prepare master plan where such plans are yet to be developed. I have given continuity to build trekking trail s and development program. I have given continuity to wider Janakpur Region Development Program. 121. Tribhuvan International Airport will be upgraded as per international standard. Under this program, runway and parking way will be extended with Koteshore sec tion of Koteshore Suryabinayak road by converting this section into tunnel road. Education Infrastructure: Fundamental of Human Capability 122. I have allocated Rs. 66.12 billion for education related programs excluding programs to be implemented by the loca l level in the coming fiscal year. 123. School Sector Development Program will be implemented to increase managerial capability of schools by making school education more equitable and qualitative. I have given continuity to the policy of making primary educat ion compulsory and free of cost; and making secondary level education gradually free of cost. I have given continuity to curriculum based technology friendly learning program. 124. Continuous opportunity for education will be ensured through open and alternative schools for the children with school age but remaining deprived from school education. 30 125. National Volunteers Program will be given continuity to mobilize youths with Bachelor’s degree in technical faculty and Master’s degree in other fields from universi ties to work in technical and social sector in local level for one year. Establishing Technical Skill Development Centers program will be implemented to produce lower and medium level technical manpower required for local level. 126. I have managed necessary b udget for the establishment of Bidushi Yogmaya Ayurveda University and Engineering and Technical Institute. Health Service 127. Programs will be implemented for easy access every Nepali people’s to health services in affordable cost. I have allocated Rs. 31.78 billion for the implementation of health related services excluding primary health services to be provided from local level as per the Constitution. 128. National Health Insurance Scheme will be expedited with the target of covering all Nepali citizen in heal th insurance within three years to end the situation of any citizen being deprived from primary health service due to lack of money. 129. In order to provide modern health service with highly expertise medical service within the country, A Master Plan will be prepared in the coming fiscal year and construction will be initiated for developing Bir Hospital as a well -equipped world class hospital in Kathmandu valley with modern facilities and infrastructures, equipment and specialized services. Capacity of the state level hospitals will be expanded. 130. I have given continuity to the policy of providing free treatment in government hospitals for cancer, heart, kidney and lever related diseases for people below the poverty line. I have made dialysis services completely free of cost. I have managed the expanded services for identification and treatment of sickle cell anemia faced particularly among Tharu community of TeraiMadhesh. 31 131. I have given continuity to the function of adopting Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) in Singhadurbar Vaidhyakhana in order to improve quality of Ayurvedic medicine. Industries producing medicine using Nepali herbs in the country will be promoted. Naturopathy will be promoted as an alternative treatment method. Campaign will be conducted to adopt Yoga as a part of daily life for all people. 132. Partnership program among public, private and cooperatives will be conducted to expand quality health service. Public Health Bill will be presented at the Legislature -Parliament in order to regulate the health services provided by public, private and community hospitals. 133. In order to ensure the quality of medicines and medical equipment, Medicine Act, 2035 will be revised. Providing quality medicines at a reasonable price from the pharmacy of the government hospitals will be better managed. 134. "Healthy Me, Healthy My Country" campaign will be expanded in partnership with government and nongovernmental organizations. This campaign will be advanced through mobilizing the students from public and private schools as actors of health awareness. 135. I have given continuity to the mandatory provision for M.D. and MBBS Doctors who have studied under government scholarship to serve in remote area for a fixed duration. 136. A study will be carried out to find structural change in demography because of climate change, natural disasters, land use, employment, economic opportunities and other variables. Orientations and awareness programs on population planning and management will be conducted. Labor, Women, Children and Social welfare Labor Management and Employment 137. I have given continuity to all the programs being implemented in labor and employment sector in the next fiscal year as well. I 32 have allocated Rs. 1.14 billion to carry out programs in the labor sector. 138. The job opportunities will be increased. Skilled and semi-skilled manpower will be developed to develop them as highly paid labor in the foreign employment market. 139. In order to receive remittance through formal channe l, opening of the bank account will be made mandatory for Nepali outgoing labors and provision will be made to remit money to that bank account. Remitters will be voluntarily motivated to invest in productive sectors including Remit Hydro. 140. Skill development training programs will be implemented as per the need of labor market. By integrating the program of the skill oriented training provider institutions with the program of the financial institutions, the resources will be made available for the trained pe ople to be self-employed and to get engaged in income generating activities work. Access to employment will be enhanced through employment information system. Skill development training and concessional loan will be made available for the entrepreneurs intending to self -employment. I have given continuity to the program related to the abolition of the low graded child labor. The ten year Master Plan for the abolition of child labor will be implemented in the next fiscal year. Women Development and Social Welfare 141. Programs will be conducted to develop labor, skill and leadership skills of women who share half of the sky. The campaign against gender and domestic violence and human trafficking will be conducted strictly. The programs regarding the protection, care and health treatment of elderly people will be conducted with priority. The community based program will be conducted for the rescue, relief and rehabilitation of the orphan and street children. Running day care centers for taking care of children of the working family will be encouraged at local level. 33 142. I have revised and given continuity to the President Women Entrepreneurs Development Program in order to develop skill of women to generate employment and self -employment opportunities. 143. I have given continuity to provide rebates in import and production of the supportive materials for the differently able person and the support through the different organizations for rehabilitation of differently able person. I have given continuity to the tax facilities provided to institutions providing employment opportunities for the differently able people. All types of public infrastructure will be made disable friendly. The separate educational institution will be managed for the education of visually impaired people. 144. I have allocated Rs. 2.23 billion for women, children and social welfare programs. Drinking Water and Sanitation 145. I have given continuity to drinking water and sanitation programs ensuring basic drinking water and sanitation facilities within the next two years for the 13 percent population deprived from basic drinking water. I have allocated Rs. 22.70 billion for this purpose. 146. Development plan of the overall drinking water and sanitation sector will be formulated and implemented to observe the next fiscal year as Drinking Water and Sanitation Campaign Year and also to achieve the Sustainable Development Goal. The new drinking water and sanitation law will be formulated by updating and integrating the prevailing laws. 147. I have given continuity to the small town drinking water and sanitation projects being implemented on cost sharing with users in the district headquarters, small towns and emerging towns. I have given continuity to the Terai -Madesh Drinking Water Improvement Program along with solar pump to pr ovide arsenic free drinking water facilities in 20 districts of Terai-Madesh. 34 148. Drinking water supply safety program will be implemented along with gradual implementation of water quality improvement that includes purification of drinking water. Culture Promotion and Protection 149. Museums will be developed and extended for promotion and protection of the distinctive culture and civilization of various tribes. Royalty payment for the creations of artists will be managed through administrative regulations. 150. Tangible and intangible cultural assets, historical palaces and heritages will be protected and promoted; and important archeological places will be investigated, explored and protected. Cultural heritages listed in World Heritage Sites will be protected, maintained and managed. Their global importance will be continued by retaining the authenticity, authenticity and sensitivity embedded within such heritages. 151. Nepal Army will be made responsible for the protection, promotion, maintenance and security of the regi onal museums and historical forts scattered across the country and owned by the Government of Nepal. Construction works of Civil -war Museum will be continued. Youth and Sports 152. I have given continuity to the provision of implementing the pilot program Ten youths One Youth Entrepreneur in all constituencies in order to create production, employment and income generation opportunities in local level by making youth entrepreneurs. Program to reward youth involved in innovation, invention, research and outstan ding contribution to the society will be continued. 153. Programs related to the five Pillars for youth development as mentioned in the Youth Vision -2025: qualitative and professional education, employment, entrepreneurship and skill development; youth health a nd social security; mobilization, participation and leadership development and sports and entertainment sectors will be implemented. 35 154. Service sector will further be enhanced by continuing the mobilization of youth in voluntary service program in order to utilize the energy, zeal and skill of youth in social service and economic activities. 155. I have given continuity to the construction works of under construction eight cricket stadiums across the country and the construction works for international standard cr icket stadium at Mulpani, Kathmandu will be preceded with priority. 156. Participation at national and international level competitions will be promoted through sponsorship by business entities in popular sports football and cricket competitions. 157. I have alloca ted Rs. 2.24 billion for youth and sports sector programs. Information and Communication Technology 158. In the next fiscal year, I have accorded high priority to the programs implementing with the objective of remarkable achievement in the information and communication sector. I have allocated Rs. 4.98 billion for this purpose. 159. Information Bank will be established in the Department of Information in order to provide published documents, information and decisions by the government agencies in integrated way through electronic medium. Clean feed policy, for foreign broadcasters to be broadcasted in Nepal, will be started to enact from 16 July 2017. 160. To enhance the uses of information technology and ensure the easy dissemination of information, the Tele -Centers and Community Information Centers run under the Ministry of Information and Communication will be expanded and implemented in partnership with Nepal Telecommunication Authority through local Postal Offices. 161. All the district headquarters, municipalities and rural municipalities will be connected by optical fiber laid down beside the national highways and roa d connecting district 36 headquarters within two years. Broadband Internet Service will be expanded to ward-level. Tele -communication service providers will be encouraged to get merged in order to make the telecommunication service more systematic and competitive. International Mobile Equipment Identification (IMEI) number registration will be made compulsory to control the illegal import of mobile phones. 162. Legal and institutional arrangements will be made for restructuring postal service as autonomous entity. Postal Saving Banks will be developed as the payment centre for the remittance, electricity, drinking water, telephone charge and social security allowances by expanding them in all local levels. 163. Targeted programs will be implemented in order to increase the representation of women, Dalit, differently able people, Madheshi, marginalized community and people from deprived sector, class and community to the mass communication media. Working Journalist Act will be implemented effectively. Establishing Journalist Training Academy in each state will be initiated to increase the capacity of journalists. Science and Technology 164. Capacity of the agencies involved in research and development will enhanced In order to develop infrastructure and make service delive ry effective by maximum use of science and technology in integrated record management of the country and use it as a tool of public service delivery,. 165. The young scientists who are involved in innovation will be encouraged. Environment will be created for Nepali scientists living abroad to come back to Nepal to contribute it. 166. In order to carry out specialized study and research in science and technology, a science city will be established in Tribhuvan University. The research centers under Tribhuvan Unive rsity will be restructured and encouraged to carry out researches in contemporary topics for economic, administrative, academic and social sectors by developing them as National Research Centers. 37 Poverty Reduction and Social Security 167. Poverty reduction pr ograms will be implemented effectively in an integrated way. Such programs will be implemented massively in a coordinated way in the areas where the rate of poverty is higher. The basic services like employment generation, education, health, drinking wat er and sanitation will be distributed effectively. Skill development programs implemented by various agencies will be integrated. Productive and employment oriented programs will be encouraged by implementing targeted programs for the people below poverty line. Access to service delivery provided by the state will be ensured for all. 168. Identity Cards will be distributed to the families identified as poor families. Poor family identification program will be initiated in additional 50 districts. 169. I have given continuity to the social security allowance provided to the citizens like senior citizen, single woman, disadvantaged groups (dalits), endangered indigenous people/ ethnic groups, helpless and physically challenged people. I have allocated Rs. 36 billion for this purpose. Special precaution will be taken to ensure that no beneficiary will be deprived from receiving the social security allowances. Such allowances will be distributed through banking channel by institutional strengthening and making monitoring more effective. 170. The members with working age from the family of the martyrs of various movement and armed struggles, and wounded and displaced people will be given priority to the income generating programs implemented by the government a nd in the entrepreneurial programs as well. Environment Protection 171. I have given continuity to the programs being implemented to develop environment as the foundation of sustainable development. I have allocated Rs. 7.65 billion for this purpose. 38 172. Establishment of the air pollution measurement centers will continue. Monitoring mechanism will be developed for environmental pollution adaption and mitigation. Human activities and development processes will be made environment friendly according to the concept of green development. The application of new technologies will be encouraged to reduce the generation of the polluted smoke from the vehicles. Since the commuting of the vehicles older than 20 years has been already banned in the Kathmandu Valley , such provision will be implemented in other main cities as well. 173. Solar power will be made available for the poor, disadvantaged, Mushahars, Haliya, Doms, Dalit s including the marginalized communities under Smoke Free Lighted House program and domestic biogas plant and improved iron oven will be installed. Solar Pump Installation program will be encouraged for irrigation purpose. Renewable energy will be installed in the birthing centers, snake bite treatment centers, health centers and government or community hospitals. 174. The installation of multi hazard early warning system will be completed at meteorological centers, automated surface water gauging centers and electrocution /lightening measure centers under expansion and strengthening program to disasters ri sk reduction. Mitigation programs will be implemented to minimize the negative impacts of climate change. 175. Establishment of industries will be encouraged to recycle the battery products . Plastic and plastic based products will be reused, recycled and renewed. Bank and financial Sector 176. The establishment of Infrastructure Development Bank which was initiated in the current fiscal year in the participation of national and international banks in order to increase private and foreign investment in the infrastructure sector, will be completed in the coming fiscal year. 39 177. A study will be carried out to establish a strong and effective institution by merging the funds like Youth Self Employment Fund, Rural Self Reliance Fund, and Economic Revival Fund. 178. Financial Sector Development Strategy will be implemented. Bank Account of all Nepali program will be implemented effectively. Banks will be encouraged to provide innovative financial services like branchless banking, e-banking and mobile wallet by maximum use of information technology. In order to increase national investment in capital formation, common people will be encouraged for saving. Financial literacy programs will be taken forward for implementation. 179. More priority will be given to the restoration of bank branches displaced during conflict period. Necessary arrangement will be made to open at least one branch of the commercial banks in each rural municipalities and municipalities. Arrangeme nt will be made to maintain the local consolidated fund in the commercial banks and obtain the electronic data of such fund in the Financial Comptroller's Office. 180. Relending facilities to be channelized to the productive sectors including agriculture, industries will be more effective. The process of cheaper lending facility provided to agriculture sector will be simplified and access of all farmers to such loan will be increased. 181. Insurance companies will be motivated to expand their services nationwide an d increase public awareness about it. Considering the fact that Nepali insurance companies are remitting a big chunk of money annually to reinsurance companies for the purpose of paying premiums for reinsuring their business abroad, a mandatory arrangement will be made for Nepali life and non -life insurance companies to reinsure major share of their insurance policies to Nepal Reinsurance Company. 182. Policy and institutional arrangements will be made for development and stability of capital market. Manufacturing companies will be encouraged to enter into the capital market. Stock exchange market will be made transparent and fully 40 automated. Membership of the international re gulatory institution on stock exchange market will be obtained. 183. Salaries including other government payments from state treasury will be made only through the bank account of the concerned person or institution. An arrangement will be made for e-payment of the international trade by obtaining e -gate way for international transactions. Arrangements will be made for revenue collection through e-payments. International Economic Cooperation 184. International economic cooperation will be mobilized in the areas of national need and priority. Development Cooperation Policy will be revised to comply with federal system. Procedure and modality will be prepared and implemented for the mobilization of international economic cooperation at the local and state level. 185. Government, private, cooperatives and non -government sector will be mobilized in a coordinated way in the development process. In order to make the operations and processes of the NGOs transparent, monitoring will be made effective. A n arrangement will be made for INGOs to work transparently in the sectors and areas specified by the government. An arrangements will be made to monitor programs implemented by the INGOs by the concerned local level. New laws will be introduced by repealing the existing legislations. International relation, Human rights and Governance. 186. Relation of equal proximity will be maintained with both neighbors. Policies will be formulated so as to take advantage of the economic growth in the two countries. Nepal's presence in the international forums will be made meaningful by making international relation effective. Nepali missions abroad will be incapacitated to work for economic diplomacy, labor diplomacy, tourism diplomacy and trade diplomacy. 187. Country-specific strategies will be made in order to enhance cooperation with the friendly countries in the field of trade , 41 investment, tourism, labor, environment and technology. The works of the projects will be implemented with top priority as per the con ventions, agreements, understandings signed during the high level visits. 188. Necessary infrastructures will be made for electronic passport. Institute of Foreign Affairs will be developed gradually as the Foreign Policy Analysis and Research Center by developing its infrastructure. 189. Nepal's commitments made with the international community for human rights will be fulfilled. Concerned government agencies will be made extra alert to guarantee human rights. 190. An arrangement will be made for strengthening data on national income and vital registration and an extensive Data -base System will be setup up to local levels. Economic Census will be carried out to obtain overall economic statistics of Nepal. 191. Public Administration will be developed as an institution responsible and accountable towards people. In order to make it capable enough for effective public service delivery under federal set -up, Civil Service will be restructured accord ingly. National Civil Service Policy will be formulated to provide guidance to the Federal, State and Local Civil Services. Civil Servants will be adjusted as required into the Federal, State and Local Level in accordance to the spirit and values of Constitution by forming necessary Public Services in the State and Local level. Public service delivery will be guaranteed as people's right. National integrity system will be developed by following the policy of zero tolerance against corruption. 192. Contributory Pension System will be implemented for all public servants receiving remuneration from state treasury, including civil servants, teachers, Nepal Police, Armed Police, Nepal Army to be appointed after July 16, 2017. In this regard, a bill will be tabled into this session of the Legislature -Parliament. Vehicle Use and T ransfer Policy will be made to set certain norms and criteria in order to control the misuse of the public 42 vehicles, to reduce maintenance cost and to discourage the trends of using them by the unauthorized persons. 193. Bills on B udget Accountability and Federal Financial Procedures will be tabled into the Legislative-Parliament in this fiscal year. Participation of the common people will be ensured in budget formulation and expenditures process. Economy will be maintained in the rec urrent expenditures. Internal audit will be made effective by strengthening internal control system. The disintegrated information technologies in the field of public financial management at various agencies will be integrated. 194. Fiscal transfer s from Federal to States and Local Level and recording and reporting of revenue management of three tiers of governments will be managed through accounting system. 195. Framework of Health Security Plan will be developed for the contributors of the Employer’s Provident Fund by covering such expenses from the portion of interests accrued from their contributions. 196. Disaster management works will be carried out in accordance to the Federal set up. Institutional arrangement and capacity of the manpower will be enhanced for carrying out pre-disaster, during the disaster and post disaster works. Open spaces will be allotted in each local body to manage a large number of people during the massive disaster. 197. Living condition of prisoners will be enhanced as per human dignity by improv ing and reconstructing the physical infrastructure of prisons . Immigration Strategic Plan will be formulated and implemented. Distribution of National Identification Card as a unique identity of all citizens will be initiated. 198. Capacity enhancement, modernization and professionalization of Nepal Police, Armed Police and National Investigation Department will be carried out. Arrangement will be made to equip them for human resources development, organizational structure, contemporary information friendly work performance 43 and service delivery as well as arrangement of other machineries, equipment, and appropriate logistics. 199. Nepal Army will be mobilized effectively for National Security, disaster management and developmental works by providing adequate resource s and making them competent. National Development Corps Program has been continued to engage the young people in nation-building as disciplined and responsible citizen towards nation. 200. Performance of the state -owned public ente rprises will be improved gradually. Public enterprises which are not deemed necessary to run by the government will be managed through appropriate procedures. Improvement in Implementation Capacity 201. In order to stop the delay in budget execution due to lack of expenditure authorization, I have made changes in the system of program approval and expenditure authorization. District Treasury Comptroller Office s will release budget to the respective spending units as per the programs with trimester division generated by Line Ministries Budget Information System (LMBIS) of Ministry of Finance. 202. The Secretary of concerned Ministry will amend and inform to the Ministry of Finance and National Planning Commission within Mid-April if any amendment in the program s is deemed necessary without any negative effects in the stipulated target of the programs. 203. Project Implementation Action Plan including the information of detailed activities of project/program, completi on period and cost, output indicators and responsible personnel will be published at project-site and through the website of the Ministry by the end of August. Annual procurement plan with quarterly allocation should be prepared and approved by Mid-August. 204. The task of formulation and amendment of Procedures and Directives to implement the programs and Projects from all ministries /entities shall be accomplished within the Mid-August 44 and formulation and amendment of r egulations shall be accomplished by the end of August. Project offices will be established to implement the new programs and projects by the Mid-August. Temporary positions shall be approved for the completion period of the programs and projects with a clear human resource planning. 205. Project Chief including other staffs will be deputed with clear job descriptions, main performance indicators and necessary authority, responsibility and accountability in accordance with the approved Organogram of the project. While deputing such staffs, the qualification, capacity, experience and the track record of the individuals in implementing the project s in the past shall be considered as criteria. 206. The orientation training on technical aspects of projects, implementation method, expected output and outcome including inter-agency coordination will be provided in the beginning to the personnel assigned in the projects. 207. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and preliminary environmental assessment will be accomplished within the minimum timeframe set by the prevailing laws to facilitate the project implementation smoothly. 208. By completing the preparatory works of the projects and tender calls by mid-August, c ontract shall be signed after completing bid evaluation by mid-October. The contract with the Construction Companies will be cancelled in case such companies don’t commence project works within the designated timeframe and fail to comply with the project implementation action plan. 209. The tendency of contracting various contracts by the same construction company beyond their capacity leading to failure to complete the works will be brought to an end. The prior written approval of Project Chief shall be required if subcontractors need to be involved fully or partially after contracts are signed by with the main Construction Companies. Arrangements will be made not to allow to enter into sub-contracting for more than 45 one level except for essential work. Technical test of construction quality of the projects will be done by National Vigilance Center. 210. The performance level will be measured as per the objective criteria by providing certain weight to the activities of performance contract made with the Head of the Department and Project Head. Performances will be reward if the y secure marks higher than certain level as per the provision in Civil Service Act. 211. Financial as well as Non-Financial incentives will be provided to those Construction Companies who complete their task within the designated cost, quality and time frame. Under performing Construction Companies as well as Construction Companies failing to complete work within the designated time frame will be punished as per law. 212. Performance bill will be prepared within the 10 days of work completion by verifying the completed works. The payment of bill will be made within 15 days of its submission. 213. Disbursement requests will be submitted to the concerned Project Management Office as per Disbursement Directives immediately if the threshold is met and within the next quarter of the concerned quarter if the threshold is not met. Report of the direct payment and commodity assistance will be submitted to concern District Treasury Comptroller's Office within 15 days after end of every month. 214. The detailed review of the existing programs/projects has been realized as necessity for thoroughly implementation of Constitutional rights of Nepal and for ending the duplication of some of the projects and programs running at the Central Level. It has been observed that there would be heavy pressure upon the recurrent expenditure s due to the structure of the present governance system of country . Therefore, a High Level Public Expenditure Review Commission will be formed comprising of representatives of concerned experts to recommend for the review of existing projects . A program including reforms in 46 public expenditure framework and also a High level Remuneration and Fringe Benefits Recommendation Committee will be formed to recommend for the review of remuneration and fringe benefits of government service holders. Right Honorable Speaker, 215. Now, I would like to present Budget Allocation Plan and arrangement of resources. The size of the budget has slightly increased despite giving contin uation to the existing programs due to sufficient allocation of budget for the timely completion of the campaign of reconstruction, allocation of sufficient budget for two upcoming elections to be held in coming Fiscal Year and not to let to be the lack of resources to execute the topics covered under the rights of local level provisioned in the Scheduled -8 of present Constitution of Nepal. 216. I have allocated Rs.1278.99 billion for the coming Fiscal Year 2017/2018. Out of the total allocation , Rs.803.53 billion or 62.8 percent for the recurrent expenditure, Rs. 335.17 billion or 26.2 percent for capital expenditure and Rs.140.28 billion or 11 percent for financing. The proposed expenditure estimation is 21.9 percent higher than the current year’s allocation and 36.6 percent higher than the revised estimates of the current Fiscal Year. The percentage of recurrent expenses has been increased due to fiscal transfer for State and Local Level accounted under the recurrent expenditure according to the international classification of Government Finance Statistics. 217. I have transferred Rs. 225.05 billion or 17.6 percent of the total budget to the Local Level, of which Rs. 148.63 billion is allocated as equalization grant and Rs. 76.41 billion as conditional grant. As the State government is not yet formed, I have allocated Rs. 7.14 billion as transitional arrangement through equalization grant. The budget book containing of the details of transferred amount allocated to Local Level and the state government is presented separately. 218. With respect to the financing of the proposed allocation for the coming Fiscal Year, 730.05 billion will be financed through 47 revenue mobilization, Rs. 15.00 billion from principal repayment and Rs. 72.16 billion from foreign grants. With this financing, the budget deficit will remain at Rs. 461.77 billion. To meet this deficit, Rs. 214.03 billion will be arranged from foreign loan. After financing from revenue and foreign aid, there will be a net deficit of Rs. 247.73 billion. Of the total defi cit, Rs. 145.00 billion will be financed through domestic borrowing and Rs. 102.73 billion through current year’s cash balance. Right Honorable Speaker, 219. Now, I present the policy and programs of revenue mobilization for Fiscal Year 2017/18. 220. Despite the en couraging growth in domestic resource mobilization in the previous years, the current revenue growth rate is not solely sufficient to meet the required resources for earthquake reconstruction, implementation of federal structure and achieving the targets set by the periodic plan. Necessary preparations are undergoing for the tax rights and fiscal transfer for each level of the federal structure through mobilizing additional resources required. Sustainable revenue growth rate will be possible only from the speedy economic development and formation of the prosperous economy through the maximum utilization of the available resources. Keeping the above facts in mind, federal revenue policy will be implemented in the coming fiscal year. 221. The main priority of the federal revenue policy will be to develop and modernize the revenue system for the development of strong federal fiscal system so as to make the national resources prosperous as envisioned by the Constitution of Nepal. In order to develop and broaden the tax base, additional reform will be made in the revenue system by bringing all kinds of economic activities into the tax net to ensure sustainable revenue mobilization. Following will be the objectives of the revenue policy; 48 • To make the revenue right and its distribution systematic among the Government of Nepal, State Government and at the Local Level in line with the Constitution of Nepal. • To maximize resource mobilization by bringing all kinds of economic activities into the tax net based on cooperation, coordination and partnering among Federal, State and Local Level and to protect national tax base through revenue leakage control. • To reform revenue system through achieving sustainable revenue growth so as to strengthen federal fiscal system. • To support minimizing increased trade deficit through trade promotion by expanding national production and productivity. • To make the revenue system equitable and investment friendly by adopting clean and transparent tax system. • To make the existing non tax rates cost effective by identifying additional sources of non-tax revenue. 222. Following policy and programs will be adopted to achieve the above mentioned objectives: Federal Fiscal Strengthening, • Federal revenue policy will be formulated for the development of prosperous economy by making federal fiscal structure strong and capable. • To make the State and Local Level able to independently allocate certain portion of the financial resource s by developing revenue base and enabling to fix tax rates themselves. • The organizational structure of the revenue administration will be made compatible to the federal structure by expanding economic activities. 49 • For the structural reform of revenue admini stration, a bill related to the formation of Central Revenue Board will be submitted to the Legislature Parliament. • Geographic neutrality will be maintained in the resource mobilization of the State and Local Level without affecting inter-state and international trade. Policy level and System Reform 223. There has been complaint from the taxpayers for a long time about the increased business cost due to tax related cases not settled on time and the deposit amount required for the review. While formulating this budget, I had thought of constituting a permanent instrument to settle tax issue, review tax rates and reduce number of tax exempt goods. Due to the election code of conduct being effective, there was no space for making changes in the tax related laws and tax rates. Hence, I have made no changes in the tax rates except minimum increment in the excise duty in alcohol-based and tobacco-based goods affecting general health. • International trade will be facilitated through appro priate reform in the customs laws as per the revised Kyoto Protocol. Fifth phase of customs reform and modernization action plan and the second five year strategic plan of the Inland Revenue Department will be implemented. • Revenue Leakage Control Act and Procedure will be revised within this Fiscal Year. In order to regulate and facilitate electronic trade, necessary procedure will be developed and brought into implementation. • Revenue exemption will be managed through expend iture system by gradually reducing the system of revenue exemption. • The process of double taxation avoidance agreement will be expedited with those countries having much more 50 transactions and having potentials of investment and technology export with Nepal. • Sales, distribution, regulation and management of liquor and cigarettes will be made further effective. • In the process of money laundering, effective law will be formulated and implemented to control foreign exchange embezzlement through hundee, electronic currency and bit coins. Procedural Reform • New business code number will be brought into effect from this Fiscal Year revising the existing business code used for the tax purpose so as to match with goods classification code based on the harmonized customs system. • E-payment system will be made effective in order to facilitate taxpayers to pay their taxes from any branch of the banks that are involved in revenue collection. • For the procedural simplification of tax system, I have proposed for reforms in maintaining uniformity and clarity in administrative, legal and technical subjects. • As a member state of the World Customs Organization, Goods Classification and Codification 2017 developed and promoted by the organization will be implemented from this f iscal year. I have expected that it will further support trade facilitation. • Custom Automation System will be gradually made webbased. For this purpose, Custom Automation S ystem (ASYCUDA) will be gradually extended to all custom offices. • An arrangement will be made in a way that the importer and exporter will be allowed to import and export for 51 business purpose, only after getting import export code effective from 16 July 2017. Broadening Tax Base • Tax base will be broadened by giving priority to the expansion of tax net instead of increasing the tax rate. • The task of allotting Permanent Account Number will be continued to all income earners including doctors, engineers, lawyers, advisors, artists, players and individuals involved in teaching profession i n various teaching institutions, and additional taxpayers will be brought into the tax net. Taxpayers Education • Taxpayers Education Programs will be continued as informative and awareness raising activities for the taxpayers and general public. Such programs related to education, information and awareness will be conducted in the participation of and coordination with private, nongovernment, user groups and professional agencies as well. • Necessary coordination will be made to include tax system of Nepal in the curricula of secondary level school to provide tax information. Efficiency and System Development • Revenue mobilization will be enhanced through capacity development of tax administration and the system reform. For this purpose , arrangement will be made to have effective exchange of information by developing integrated information network within the Ministry of Finance and its departments. • The system of revenue administration and its efficiency will be developed as per the federal struc ture so as to 52 facilitate the formation of revenue structure and capacity development at the State and Local Level. • Revenue Administration Training Centre will be developed as an academic institution to offer capacity development and subject matter efficie ncy. This Centre will be developed as Document Archiving Centre and preserving important revenue related records. Revenue Leakage Control • For the purpose of protecting national tax base, risk indicators will be revised through identifying revenue risk zones and controlling high tax planning and evasion. • Information exchange will be managed between Federal, State and Local Level of revenue administration in order to control revenue leakage. • Trade distortion will be controlled by the use of electronic system in internal movement of goods making efficient internal monitoring and surveillance. Patrolling will be mobilized in order to control illegal import. • An arrangement of payment only through banking system will be made in case of trade transaction over certain amount with India and Tibet of China. • Customs valuation system will be made realistic and transaction value based by enforcing realistic customs declaration and right classification of goods. • Special strategy will be adopted to prevent under invoicing, illegal import/export and illegal trade. Right Honorable Speaker, 224. I have expected to achieve 7.2 percent of economic growth by the remarkable expansion in economic activities through the implementation of this budget. After publication of this bud get, inflation will be remained at 7 percent through monetary policy to be declared by Nepal Rastra Bank and strengthening of supply 53 system. Similarly, I believe that significant progress will be achieved in social security and Human Development Indices. I have expected an additional 100,000 self -employment and 400,000 new employment opportunities will be created by the implementation of this budget. 225. I would like to express my gratitude to the Right Honorable President, Right Honorable Prime Minister, Righ t Honorable Vice President, Right Honorable Chief Justice, Right Honorable Speaker, Honorable Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, Heads and Members of the Constitutional Bodies, and prominent leaders of the major political parties for providing their guidance in formulating this budget. I would also like to recall the suggestions given by representatives of the diplomatic missions and all development partners during the budget formulation. Suggestions provided by Honorable Members of the Financing Committee of Legislature Parliament during the discussion have been remained as foundation of this budget. I would like to express my sincere thanks to former Finance Minister s, former Finance Secretaries, civil servants, intellectuals, economists, private sector organizations, civil society, social organizations , journalist and all sisters, and brothers residing outside Nepal. 226. Finally, I would like to express my gratitude to all general public and taxpayers who have provided continued best wishes and supports in the development and prosperity of the country and to all development partners, non -governmental and community organizations working towards wellbeing and progress of Nepal. I also expect full cooperation from all in the implementation of this budget. 227. There are many problems, solving all at once is not possible and also can't be. Let's be dedicated, committed and united to face the challenges standing at the current grou nd reality. Let's be optimistic in shaping the future bright. Thank you! Annexes Revenue & Grant Expenditure Taxes Non Tax Revenue Cash Balance of Last Year and Irregular Grants Compensation of employees Use of goods and services Interest and Services Subsidie Grant Social Security Other Expenditure Fiscal Transfer Capital Expenditure 421,096,616 60,865,036 3,277,373 39,543,955 89,268,215 44,274,894 8,673,040 941,842 170,847,704 56,747,109 234,003 0 122,350,430 528,574,874 52,413,761 0 75,172,916 129,637,036 71,509,586 21,242,189 1,695,546 247,591,668 88,557,110 1,386,222 0 262,034,913 666,204,558 63,851,012 0 72,167,628 130,529,080 120,053,693 30,799,958 1,016,469 184,738,180 102,639,887 1,556,096 232,198,091 335,175,970 666,204,558 63,851,012 130,215,418 102,505,827 30,799,958 791,779 110,378,143 102,227,094 1,556,096 227,776,926 201,362,275 72,167,628 257,317 12,046,835 207,217 23,192,982 133,718 2,081,285 29,485,090 56,345 5,501,031 17,473 51,167,055 279,075 2,339,880 104,328,605 656,161,551 823,654,270 524,782,980 493,337,237 802,223,198 1,138,707,424 163,689,464 72,167,628 67,404,444 730,055,570 907,613,516 163,689,464 Budget Surplus (-)/ Deficit(+) -4,763,184 177,557,946 336,484,226 167,492,719 -31,445,743 Financing -135,844,102 Internal Loan Less Internal Loan Refund Domestic Share Investment Foreign Share Investment External Amortization Less External Borrowing Domestic Amortization Less Domestic Borrowing 26,863,955 1,369,027 11,994,018 706,771 17,794,927 34,455,872 50,334,947 87,774,515 45,621,880 10,000,000 20,884,729 975,000 25,340,518 147,814,989 19,405,260 90,256,500 34,762,889 15,000,000 51,754,125 3,601,417 30,121,145 214,035,429 20,047,855 145,000,000 9,090,261 15,000,000 22,317,604 3,601,417 30,121,145 20,047,855 145,000,000 1,408,784 3,354,400 24,263,844 26,082,121 214,035,429 Surplus(-)/Deficit (+) -47,350,539 31,648,617 102,736,228 102,736,228 0 0 -15,904,796 -233,747,998 -163,689,464 4,763,184 -74,821,718 Budget Summary Fiscal Year 2017/18 (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 1 Net Internal Loan Net Investment External Net Borrowing Domestic Net Borrowing 25,494,928 12,700,789 -16,660,945 -37,439,568 35,621,880 21,859,729 -122,474,471 -70,851,240 19,762,889 55,355,542 -183,914,284 -124,952,145 -5,909,739 25,919,021 30,121,145 -124,952,145 1,408,784 3,354,400 24,263,844 26,082,121 -214,035,429 Revenue Grant Recurrent Capital 485,239,025 39,543,955 370,986,807 122,350,430 580,988,635 75,172,916 561,619,357 262,034,913 730,055,570 72,167,628 803,531,454 335,175,970 730,055,570 706,251,241 201,362,275 72,167,628 37,919,354 29,485,090 59,360,859 104,328,605 2016/17 2015/16 Actual Estimate GON Grant Loan 2017/18 Heading Source Taxes Taxes on income, profits, and capital gains Taxes on payroll and workforce Taxes on property Taxes on goods and services Payable by individuals & Sole Traders Payable by Enterprises and Corporations Taxes on Investment and other income Social Security Taxes on payroll Recurrent taxes on immovable property Taxes on financial and capital transactions VAT Excise 29,964,988 70,968,964 13,204,035 3,269,763 5,103 13,144,297 122,411,939 65,776,418 Individual or Sole Traders Remuneration Tax Capital Gain Individuals Company Profit Tax Government Corporations Companies Company Profit Tax Public Limited Companies Company Profit Tax Private Limited Companies Company Profit Tax Other Institutions Capital gain Entity Taxes on Rent & Lease Income Interest Dividend Other Investment Income Tax on gambling, lottery, souvenir and grants Taxes on other income Social Security Taxes on payroll Annual Property Tax House and Land Registration VAT Production VAT Import VAT Goods, Sales & Distribution VAT Services & Contracts VAT Services, Tourism VAT Telephone, Insurance & Air Travel VAT Non Registered (Reverse Charge) Tobacco Alcohol Beer Excise on other produced items Import Duties 9,696,764 13,532,502 6,735,722 3,590,633 27,283,855 25,436,556 4,607,678 10,050,242 3,358,368 6,852,167 2,382,090 21,696 92,140 497,574 3,269,763 5,103 13,144,297 16,213,610 72,891,287 13,373,563 7,877,033 1,410,732 8,640,546 2,005,168 9,010,033 14,500,384 8,293,839 4,417,856 29,554,306 12,963,011 16,120,976 3,729,187 7,002,345 31,633,041 32,899,143 6,450,255 43,699 3,915,242 9,995,818 3,198,578 20,544 119,552 785,582 4,179,071 40,373 14,651,752 18,870,669 113,095,172 13,733,015 10,296,572 2,505,659 10,371,081 2,996,087 10,886,771 16,621,091 9,774,268 6,566,745 36,432,599 16,338,304 20,318,536 4,700,188 8,825,607 39,869,614 41,465,381 8,129,765 55,077 4,934,688 12,598,517 4,031,419 25,893 150,681 990,131 5,267,212 50,885 18,466,758 23,784,191 142,542,754 17,308,801 12,977,581 3,158,080 13,071,491 3,776,205 13,721,454 20,948,871 12,319,280 8,276,586 45,918,875 15,555,613 19,345,171 4,475,024 8,402,814 37,959,650 39,478,971 7,740,306 52,439 4,698,290 11,994,982 3,838,293 24,653 143,463 942,699 5,014,885 48,447 17,582,103 22,644,803 135,714,206 16,479,618 12,355,887 3,006,791 12,445,298 3,595,305 13,064,124 19,945,310 11,729,122 7,880,094 43,719,119 782,691 973,365 225,164 422,793 1,909,964 1,986,410 389,459 2,638 236,398 603,535 193,126 1,240 7,218 47,432 252,327 2,438 884,655 1,139,388 6,828,548 829,183 621,694 151,289 626,193 180,900 657,330 1,003,561 590,158 396,492 2,199,756 11111 11112 11113 11121 11122 11123 11124 11125 11131 11132 11133 11134 11135 11136 11211 11311 11341 11411 11412 11413 11414 11415 11416 11417 11421 11422 11423 11424 11425 32,813,174 78,028,483 18,035,316 4,179,071 40,373 14,651,752 171,868,255 80,281,474 41,357,028 98,345,444 22,731,329 5,267,212 50,885 18,466,758 216,619,103 101,185,066 39,375,808 93,634,180 21,642,380 5,014,885 48,447 17,582,103 206,241,908 96,337,769 1,981,220 4,711,264 1,088,949 252,327 2,438 884,655 10,377,195 4,847,297 7,781,433 252,327 887,093 16,650,217 154,652,368 5,014,885 17,630,550 330,915,284 162,433,801 5,267,212 18,517,643 347,565,501 128,876,973 4,179,071 14,692,125 275,762,734 114,137,987 3,269,763 13,149,400 205,668,719 528,574,874 421,096,616 666,204,558 31,914,701 634,289,857 Receipts of Revenue and Grants Estimate (Rs. in '000 ) Annex-2 Heading Actual Estimate Existing Measures New Measures 2016/17 2015/16 2017/18 Grants Taxes on international trade and transactions Other taxes Grants from foreign governments Grants from international organizations Other Grants from international organizations Taxes on specific services Taxes on use of goods and on permission to use goods Customs and other import duties Taxes on exports Other taxes on international trade and transactions Registration Fee Ownership Certificate Charge Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Recurrent Grant Capital Grant 1,284,111 16,196,251 77,822,181 113,683 4,223,275 1,141,453 1,570,155 13,912,401 3,790,806 8,322,661 7,000,186 Foreign Employment Services Health Services Education ServicesEducation Institute Education ServicesAboard Study Vehicle Tax Taxes on the use of infrastructure Road Maintenance and Improvement Duty Road Construction and Maintenance Duty Infrastructure Tax Import duties Indian Excise Refund Fees Local Development Fees Export duty Export Service Charge Agriculture service charge on imports Other Income related to Customs Firm Registration Fee Agency Registeration Fee Driving Licence & Vehicle Ownership Certificate Charge Fire Arms Registration Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Recurrent Grant Capital Grant 3,011 724,778 361,904 194,418 7,104,760 986,078 1,573,764 5,419,589 1,112,060 77,816,708 4,208 1,265 110,795 2,888 3,412,280 810,995 1,076,511 64,942 1,562,846 7,309 13,912,401 3,790,806 8,322,661 7,000,186 1,849 1,010,989 520,783 268,282 7,868,105 1,109,622 1,667,795 3,484,838 7,680,742 95,857,910 616 1,233 1,023,761 8,587 4,076,072 636,237 1,713,750 67,810 1,664,433 13,562 11,806,985 25,863,342 16,493,543 12,037,475 2,331 1,274,229 656,384 338,137 9,916,792 1,398,544 2,102,054 4,392,216 9,680,645 120,817,275 777 1,554 1,290,327 10,822 5,137,395 801,900 2,159,974 85,467 2,097,817 17,093 15,978,356 19,485,250 16,646,665 12,741,856 2,219 1,213,187 624,940 321,938 9,441,725 1,331,546 2,001,355 4,181,806 9,216,891 115,029,492 740 1,480 1,228,514 10,304 4,891,287 763,485 2,056,500 81,373 1,997,321 16,274 15,978,356 19,485,250 16,646,665 12,741,856 112 61,042 31,444 16,199 475,067 66,998 100,699 210,410 463,754 5,787,783 37 74 61,813 518 246,108 38,415 103,474 4,094 100,496 819 11441 11442 11443 11444 11451 11452 11453 11454 11455 11511 11512 11513 11521 11522 11561 11562 11611 11612 11621 11622 13111 13121 13211 13221 1,801,903 21,811,102 95,859,759 1,032,348 4,712,309 1,781,560 1,677,995 11,806,985 25,863,342 16,493,543 12,037,475 2,271,081 27,490,251 120,819,606 1,301,149 5,939,295 2,245,441 2,114,910 15,978,356 19,485,250 16,646,665 12,741,856 2,162,284 26,173,323 115,031,712 1,238,818 5,654,772 2,137,873 2,013,595 15,978,356 19,485,250 16,646,665 12,741,856 108,797 1,316,928 5,787,894 62,331 284,523 107,568 101,315 6,134,748 208,883 121,925,302 4,151,468 35,463,606 29,388,521 7,315,501 128,060,050 4,360,351 35,463,606 29,388,521 7,315,501 101,604,416 3,459,555 37,670,327 28,531,018 8,971,571 82,159,139 2,711,608 17,703,207 15,322,847 6,517,901 75,172,916 39,543,955 72,167,628 72,167,628 Heading Actual Estimate Existing Measures New Measures 2016/17 2015/16 2017/18 Non Tax Revenue Property Income Sales of Goods and Services Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Interest Dividends Rent & Royalty Sales of Goods Administrative Fees 5,761,657 756,244 3,110,154 14,983,119 8,065,689 8,386,832 5,460,046 Capital Grant Capital Grant Interest from financial institutions Interest from commercial institutions Interest from industrial institutions Interest from service oriented institutions Interest from other institutions Dividend from Financial Institutions Dividend from Commercial Institutions Dividend from Industrial Institution Dividend from Service Oriented Organization Dividend from Other Institutions Rent on Lease of Government Property Royalty on Casino Operations. Royalty from Mine Extraction Income & Royalty from Water Resources Sector Hydro Power Projects Royalty and Other Income from the Sales of Forest Products Other Royalty Sales of agriculture product Sale of Government Property Sales of other items Telephone Services Fee Charge for the use of Telephone Services Water Connection & Supply Fee for use of Water for Irrigation Charges for Consumption of Electricity Judicial Fee Duty Charges for use of Postal Services Income from Education Sector Exam Fee Transport Sector 5,761,657 756,244 220,808 616,638 6,761 2,258,412 7,535 8,085,193 782 30,764 6,866,374 6 518,025 287,489 276,811 1,780,827 980,914 4,221,623 134,290 188,750 128,139 6,640,439 1,292,861 687 1,356 310 908,112 287,564 625,464 546,412 258,758 6,499,324 2,472,247 239,783 1,924 889 1,019,006 23,431 7,349,604 1,278 32,614 6,943,934 6,259 401,068 162,312 75,086 1,113,620 1,365,131 4,833,592 139,843 192,018 120,218 6,247,673 1,296,170 794 1,268 777 623,944 355,018 567,337 397,999 258,516 5,294,333 2,021,168 292,106 2,344 1,083 1,241,364 28,543 8,953,367 1,557 39,730 8,459,176 7,625 488,586 197,730 91,471 1,356,623 1,663,017 5,888,335 170,358 233,919 146,451 7,610,983 1,579,008 967 1,545 946 760,095 432,487 691,137 484,847 314,927 5,294,333 2,021,168 287,739 2,309 1,067 1,222,807 28,116 8,819,524 1,534 39,136 8,332,721 7,511 481,282 194,774 90,104 1,336,343 1,638,157 5,800,311 167,811 230,422 144,262 7,497,207 1,555,404 953 1,522 932 748,732 426,022 680,805 477,599 310,219 4,367 35 16 18,557 427 133,843 23 594 126,455 114 7,304 2,956 1,367 20,280 24,860 88,024 2,547 3,497 2,189 113,776 23,604 14 23 14 11,363 6,465 10,332 7,248 4,708 13311 13321 14111 14112 14113 14114 14115 14121 14122 14123 14124 14125 14151 14152 14153 14154 14155 14156 14211 14212 14213 14214 14215 14216 14217 14218 14221 14222 14223 14224 14225 6,499,324 2,472,247 1,285,033 14,333,689 7,950,809 7,998,761 6,245,305 5,294,333 2,021,168 1,565,440 17,461,455 9,685,762 9,744,177 7,608,099 5,294,333 2,021,168 1,542,038 17,200,426 9,540,971 9,598,513 7,494,366 23,402 261,029 144,791 145,664 113,733 429,222 259,397 28,283,435 17,092,879 28,712,657 17,352,276 23,569,531 14,244,066 26,158,962 13,846,878 52,413,761 60,865,036 63,851,012 954,500 62,896,512 Heading Actual Estimate Existing Measures New Measures 2016/17 2015/16 2017/18 Cash Balance of Last Year and Irregularities Penalties Fines & Forfeiture Voluntary Transfers other than Grants Miscellaneous Revenue Cash Balance of Last Year and Irregularities Penalties Fines & Forfeiture Voluntary Transfers other than Grants Administrative Fee Immigration and Tourism Other Revenue Capital Revenue Cash Balance of Last Year and Irregularities 788,930 2,996 12,147,660 7,915,555 4,055 3,277,373 Export Import License Fee Other Administrative Fees Judicial Penalty, Fines and Forfeiture Administrative Penalty, Fines and Forfeiture Recurrent Capital Charges for Issuing Passports Visa Fees Permit for Mountaineering and Trekking Other Fee from Tourists Pollution Control Fees Other Revenue Sales of Government Land and Building Cash Balance of Last Year Irregularities 122,454 2,711,282 100,265 688,665 2,700 296 9,153,545 2,430,030 561,389 2,696 743,620 7,171,935 4,055 1,143,051 2,134,322 84,840 3,957,651 126,547 435,236 754 735 9,415,583 2,575,638 793,055 6,656 936,048 303,667 6,245 103,353 4,821,253 154,161 530,209 918 896 11,470,165 3,137,671 966,108 8,109 1,140,304 369,931 7,607 101,808 4,749,181 151,856 522,283 904 883 11,298,700 3,090,766 951,666 7,988 1,123,258 364,401 7,493 1,545 72,072 2,305 7,926 14 13 171,465 46,905 14,442 121 17,046 5,530 114 14226 14227 14311 14312 14411 14412 14511 14512 14513 14514 14521 14522 14531 15111 15112 561,783 1,489 12,790,932 1,239,715 6,245 684,370 1,814 15,582,053 1,510,235 7,607 674,139 1,787 15,349,120 1,487,659 7,493 10,231 27 232,933 22,576 114 10,231 27 255,623 674,139 1,787 16,844,272 684,370 1,814 17,099,895 561,783 1,489 14,036,892 788,930 2,996 20,067,270 3,277,373 3,277,373 Total Revenue, Grants 32,869,201 769,353,997 802,223,198 656,161,551 524,782,980 Heading Actual Estimate Existing Measures New Measures 2016/17 2015/16 2017/18 2015/16 Actual 2016/17 Compensation of employees Use of goods and services Interest and Services Subsidies Grants Social Security Other Expenditure Fiscal Transfer Capital Expenditure Wages and salaries Rent & Services Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets Offices Materials & Services Consultancy and Other Services fee Program Expenses Monitoring, Evaluation & Travelling Expenses Miscellaneous Recurrent Contingencies Interest on Foreign Loan Interest on Internal Loan Subsidies to Public Corporations Subsidies to Private Enterprises Grant to Social Service Grant to Local body Grant to Social Service Social Security Scholarships Retirement Benefits Property Related Expenditure Refunds Grant to State Grant to Local Level Land Building Furniture & Fittings Vehicles Plant & Machinery Civil Works Capital Research & Consultancy Capital Contingencies 89,268,215 3,212,707 4,011,943 3,744,611 5,253,578 19,771,250 2,339,655 5,941,150 3,310,879 5,362,161 653,479 288,363 185,196 33,858,411 136,804,097 19,019,202 1,965,547 35,762,360 6,203 227,800 2,825,947 17,600,734 675,869 2,219,676 5,153,168 88,664,903 5,210,133 129,637,036 5,329,652 4,747,480 5,340,196 8,729,735 31,663,786 4,424,189 11,274,548 4,375,423 16,866,766 644,856 1,050,690 797,492 49,518,638 197,275,538 32,893,740 2,282,319 53,381,051 6,162 1,380,060 10,398,644 72,713,168 1,215,088 3,404,632 9,566,221 151,546,989 13,190,171 257,317 94,409 166,162 187,046 2,646,866 8,450,047 471,299 31,006 94,901 112,316 1,042,453 22,150,529 133,121 597 2,081,285 11,283,052 48,255 220,681 2,082,177 11,979,087 3,841,838 30,000 56,345 27,255 31,405 28,976 912,768 3,439,396 60,241 6,190 994,800 17,473 5,040,930 46,126,125 277,746 1,329 2,339,880 30,256,358 196,552 298,022 1,589,118 67,420,008 3,571,547 997,000 56,345 5,501,031 17,473 51,167,055 279,075 2,339,880 104,328,605 257,317 12,046,835 207,217 23,192,982 133,718 2,081,285 29,485,090 129,637,036 71,509,586 21,242,189 1,695,546 247,591,668 88,557,110 1,386,222 262,034,913 89,268,215 44,274,894 8,673,040 941,842 170,847,704 56,747,109 234,003 122,350,430 493,337,237 823,654,270 163,689,464 Total Estimate GON Grant Loan Heading 2017/18 (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 3 Expenditure Estimates 2017/18 Source Fiscal Year 130529080 5436112 5967789 5440695 12252770 37247687 3691023 1278851 48738766 4555378 26244580 793306 223163 1012658 9045106 174680416 38735182 1498251 62406454 6096 1550000 7143500 225054591 21552299 75658914 1510891 3885449 11780819 200602287 16408201 3777110 130529080 120053693 30799958 1016469 184738180 102639887 1556096 232198091 335175970 1138707424 130215418 102505827 30799958 791779 110378143 102227094 1556096 227776926 201362275 130215418 5314448 5770222 5224673 8693136 25358244 3159483 1241655 47743966 4555378 26244580 698405 93374 1012658 2961723 106403762 38735182 1087384 62404528 6096 1550000 7143500 220633426 21552299 34119504 1266084 3366746 8109524 121203192 8994816 2750110 907613516 67404444 2016/17 Fiscal Policy (L-R) Liquidity Net Internal Loan Net Investment External Net Borrowing Domestic Net Borrowing Internal Loan Internal Loan Refund Domestic Share Investments Foreign Share Investments External Amortizations External Borrowing Domestic Amortization Domestic Borrowing 26,863,955 -1,369,027 11,994,018 706,771 17,794,927 -34,455,872 50,334,947 -87,774,515 45,621,880 -10,000,000 20,884,729 975,000 25,340,518 -147,814,989 19,405,260 -90,256,500 34,762,889 -15,000,000 51,754,125 3,601,417 30,121,145 -214,035,429 20,047,855 -145,000,000 9,090,261 -15,000,000 22,317,604 3,601,417 30,121,145 20,047,855 -145,000,000 1,408,784 3,354,400 24,263,844 26,082,121 -214,035,429 24,263,844 26,082,121 -214,035,429 1,408,784 3,354,400 -5,909,739 25,919,021 30,121,145 -124,952,145 19,762,889 55,355,542 -183,914,284 -124,952,145 35,621,880 21,859,729 -122,474,471 -70,851,240 25,494,928 12,700,789 -16,660,945 -37,439,568 57,481,609 -193,325,711 38,195,717 -54,100,513 75,118,431 -308,866,429 50,345,965 -214,035,429 4,763,184 20,009,282 -94,831,000 -163,689,464 Total Financing 4,763,184 -74,821,718 -233,747,998 -135,844,102 -15,904,796 2015/16 Actual Estimate GON Grant Loan Heading 2017/18 Financing Economic Overview (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 4 2017/18 Source Fiscal Year 2016/17 GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICE DEFENCE PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY ECONOMIC AFFAIRS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES HEALTH Executive and legislative organs, financial and fiscal affairs, external affairs Foreign economic aid General services Basic research R General public services General public services n.e.c. Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of government Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services Fire-protection services Law courts Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting Fuel and energy Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport Communication Other industries R Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. Waste management Waste water management R Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. Housing development Community development Water supply Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services Hospital services Public health services R Health Health n.e.c. 2015/16 Actual Estimate GON Grant Loan Fiscal Year 2017/18 Per. of Total Functional Expenditure Estimates (Including Financing) (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 5 2017/18 Source Heading 171349802 33349430 34796109 177379014 12563210 22808417 34009026 71441040 4804 14213179 0 10456 5832600 60387474 19460249 33242685 89484 17261 24552466 6767 4270306 1117907 4848663 10942301 57251385 23287983 2388720 51899260 4045532 4861517 22491822 210494 6449624 949750 2026030 3137806 5361152 1200738 15226413 1020114 297843 4307754 11920881 14328691 3153857 0 236235038 35660960 45837152 370291443 11446831 45285096 43930634 124709118 178022 22067603 41387 9401 20429163 37632107 31168237 35525763 88799 46398 32410107 8787 5173287 1240605 7004366 102196228 75981829 49690122 2594571 90813849 4338044 17363574 26955136 358090 3894088 576434 1891873 5084436 16735943 4222351 23165233 1161569 712050 4356234 14778228 17411143 6185379 487600 182331137 795036 23029138 34087 9082 11450070 47301735 234198091 44773764 94581 87575 35602929 14044 6470951 1784257 6756769 152817328 81326899 71424185 3186191 118267093 5696976 19632075 1673774 578585 4187000 1335493 2854915 6761616 26910459 5334376 26207565 4610126 644491 5920310 16357301 13066250 4112800 988712 499148376 44955920 50628950 454603106 15139024 63062526 41089864 39 4 4 36 1 5 3 488559236 44955920 46730227 245019162 5485469 30592785 32583851 180356925 236807 19523604 34087 9082 11320070 47301735 229776926 44773764 94581 87575 32564629 14044 6470951 1784257 5896346 50374227 62938266 32346758 1652971 80376015 5696976 10563273 806091 264585 1098218 1335493 973301 2078457 11366450 2418526 14613696 2194113 366691 2497570 16018301 8802097 3910480 988712 5543831 0 3898723 43922487 2997211 5430855 5655613 1974212 0 1488334 0 0 0 0 2081285 0 0 0 3038300 0 0 0 860423 25108052 5965945 4614488 0 5553469 0 2163186 503347 14000 726365 0 0 2270846 995462 2915850 1519543 0 277800 3422740 339000 1413753 202320 0 5045309 0 0 165661457 6656344 27038886 2850400 0 558229 2017200 0 0 130000 0 2339880 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 77335049 12422688 34462939 1533220 32337609 0 6905616 364336 300000 2362417 0 1881614 2412313 14548547 0 10074326 2416013 0 0 0 2850400 0 0 2016/17 RECREATION, CULTURE AND RELIGION EDUCATION SOCIAL PROTECTION Recreational and sporting services Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services R Recreation, culture and religion Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R Social protection Social protection n.e.c. Total 2015/16 Actual Estimate GON Grant Loan Per. of Total 2017/18 Source Heading 3968781 90689488 20118578 1872131 1818491 278159 0 28457369 14375108 27567633 18416456 1872922 1737627 16452361 58615 1869975 601031855 5930781 106831441 34432281 2338728 3192626 399427 0 43953085 11407053 28208525 22063412 1199366 1364380 30349338 361498 2357065 1278994855 935881657 2242436 3301655 328219 99706 5612478 4475269 26711414 26707936 1628607 355117 36225683 341290 2337279 5972016 65135704 39259369 0 5 3 992791798 72167628 214035429 5960016 54177863 38727269 2230436 3301655 328219 99706 5177041 4475269 17805986 26707936 11631 355117 36225683 341290 1805179 12000 4174808 532100 12000 0 0 0 435437 0 3600801 0 138570 0 0 0 532100 0 6783033 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5304627 0 1478406 0 0 0 0 Recurrent 803,531,454 28,453,934 21100 22100 22200 22300 22400 22500 22600 Wages and salaries Rent & Services Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets Offices Materials & Services Consultancy and Other Services fee Program Expenses Monitoring, Evaluation & Travelling Expenses 130,529,080 5,436,112 5,967,789 5,440,695 12,252,770 37,247,687 3,691,023 206,147 18,963 34,962 32,547 873,359 5,890,422 93,430 21111 21112 21113 21114 21119 21121 21122 21123 22111 22112 22121 22122 22211 22212 22213 22311 22312 22313 22314 22321 22411 22412 22511 22512 22521 22522 22529 22531 Salary Local Allowances Dearness Allowance Field Allowance Other Allowance Clothing Fooding Medical Expense Water and Electricity Communication House Rent Other Rent Fuel and Oil Vehicles Operation & Maintenance Insurance General Office Expenses Feeds for Animals & Birds Books and Materials Fuel and Oil For Administrative Purposes Repair and Maintenance of Public Property Consultancy and Services Expenses Other Services fee Employee Training Skill Development and Awareness Training Program Production Materials/Services Program Expenses Other Program Expenses Medicine Purchases 98,646,819 1,349,709 3,458,707 209,212 5,687,565 6,600,070 13,685,460 891,538 2,073,134 971,275 2,257,442 134,261 3,058,023 2,434,835 474,931 3,702,609 161,409 51,236 196,484 1,328,957 6,344,755 5,908,015 1,422,357 5,511,099 1,132,725 22,951,132 366,625 5,863,749 204,997 0 0 0 1,150 0 0 0 2,536 4,984 9,043 2,400 15,173 14,994 4,795 32,547 0 0 0 0 828,878 44,481 46,800 701,583 0 2,839,410 2,499 2,300,130 Total Cash Direct Payment and Commodity Grant 775,077,520 130,322,933 5,417,149 5,932,827 5,408,148 11,379,411 31,357,265 3,597,593 98,441,822 1,349,709 3,458,707 209,212 5,686,415 6,600,070 13,685,460 891,538 2,070,598 966,291 2,248,399 131,861 3,042,850 2,419,841 470,136 3,670,062 161,409 51,236 196,484 1,328,957 5,515,877 5,863,534 1,375,557 4,809,516 1,132,725 20,111,722 364,126 3,563,619 Cash Total 706,251,241 68,826,279 130,215,418 5,314,448 5,770,222 5,224,673 8,693,136 25,358,244 3,159,483 107,515 102,701 162,605 183,475 2,686,275 5,999,021 438,110 98,382,567 1,349,521 3,457,989 184,001 5,666,729 6,599,675 13,684,940 889,996 2,059,645 946,551 2,187,502 120,750 2,957,514 2,348,949 463,759 3,504,387 160,909 47,127 193,111 1,319,139 3,130,559 5,562,577 1,113,600 2,973,802 1,111,070 16,928,667 364,126 2,866,979 59,255 188 718 25,211 19,686 395 520 1,542 10,953 19,740 60,897 11,111 85,336 70,892 6,377 165,675 500 4,109 3,373 9,818 2,385,318 300,957 261,957 1,835,714 21,655 3,183,055 0 696,640 GoN Foreign Cash Economic Heads and Expenditure Line Items Cash and Non Cash Expenditure by Economic Heads and Line Items Fiscal Year -2017/18 Annex 6 (Rs. in '000) 22700 22900 24100 24200 25100 25200 26200 26300 26400 26500 Miscellaneous Recurrent Contingencies Interest on Foreign Loan Interest on Internal Loan Subsidies to Public Corporations Subsidies to Private Enterprises Grant to Social Service Grant to Local body Grant to Social Service Grant to State 1,278,851 48,738,766 4,555,378 26,244,580 793,306 223,163 1,012,658 9,045,106 174,680,416 7,143,500 3,355 0 0 0 94,901 81,750 0 662,774 20,442,040 0 22611 22612 22613 22614 22711 22911 24111 24211 25111 25112 25211 25212 25221 26211 26311 26312 26321 26322 26411 26412 26413 26421 26422 26423 Monitoring & Evaluation Expenses Travelling Expenses Travelling Expenses of VIPs & Delegations Other Travelling Expenses Miscellaneous Recurrent Contingencies Interest on Foreign Loan Interest on Internal Loan Operating Subsidy Non-Financial Corporations Capital Subsidy Non-Financial Corporations Operating Subsidies to Non-Financial Private Enterprises Capital Subsidies to Non-Financial Private Enterprises Operating Subsidies to Financial Private Enterprises International Membership Fee& Assistance Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies Conditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies Unconditional Capital Grant to Local Bodies Conditional Capital Grant to Local Bodies Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies, Committees & Boards Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies, Committees & Boards Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Other Institutions & Individuals Unconditional Capital Grant to Government Agencies, Committees & Boards Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies, Committees & Boards Unconditional Capital Grant to Other Institutions & Individuals 1,855,479 1,728,622 65,000 41,922 1,278,851 48,738,766 4,555,378 26,244,580 588,176 205,130 27,562 194,752 849 1,012,658 125,956 1,085,723 86,756 7,746,671 4,448,711 47,617,752 9,540,125 14,688,000 21,396,734 76,989,094 64,296 29,134 0 0 3,355 0 0 0 94,901 0 0 81,750 0 0 0 280,000 0 382,774 156,509 684,897 724,069 0 2,862,713 16,013,852 Total Cash Direct Payment and Commodity Grant 1,275,496 48,738,766 4,555,378 26,244,580 698,405 141,413 1,012,658 8,382,332 154,238,376 7,143,500 1,791,183 1,699,488 65,000 41,922 1,275,496 48,738,766 4,555,378 26,244,580 493,275 205,130 27,562 113,002 849 1,012,658 125,956 805,723 86,756 7,363,897 4,292,202 46,932,855 8,816,056 14,688,000 18,534,021 60,975,242 Cash Total 1,241,655 47,743,966 4,555,378 26,244,580 698,405 93,374 1,012,658 2,961,723 106,403,762 7,143,500 33,841 994,800 0 0 0 48,039 0 5,420,609 47,834,614 0 1,549,289 1,503,272 65,000 41,922 1,241,655 47,743,966 4,555,378 26,244,580 493,275 205,130 7,811 85,436 127 1,012,658 125,956 446,018 86,756 2,302,993 4,289,126 41,572,086 7,017,168 14,688,000 14,801,629 24,035,753 241,894 196,216 0 0 33,841 994,800 0 0 0 0 19,751 27,566 722 0 0 359,705 0 5,060,904 3,076 5,360,769 1,798,888 0 3,732,392 36,939,489 GoN Foreign Cash Economic Heads and Expenditure Line Items Capital 335,175,970 42,374,075 26600 27100 27200 27300 28100 28200 29100 29200 29300 29400 29500 29600 Grant to Local Level Social Security Scholarships Retirement Benefits Property Related Expenditure Refunds Land Building Furniture & Fittings Vehicles Plant & Machinery Civil Works 225,054,591 38,735,182 1,498,251 62,406,454 6,096 1,550,000 21,552,299 75,658,914 1,510,891 3,885,449 11,780,819 200,602,287 15,000 0 4,284 0 0 0 0 11,945,118 1,050 10,500 766,007 26,730,743 26511 26611 26612 27111 27112 27211 27311 27312 27313 27314 27315 28141 28211 28212 28213 29111 29211 29221 29231 29311 29411 29511 29611 Fiscal Equalization Grant Fiscal Equalization Grant Conditional Grant Conditional Social Security Subsidy Other Unconditional Social Assistance Scholarships Pensions and Disability Allowance Gratuity Accumulated Leave Medical Facility Deceased Staff Assistance Land Rent Revenue Refund Judicial Refund Other Refund Land Acquisition Building Purchase Building Construction Capital Formation Building Furniture & Fixtures Vehicles Plant & Machinery Civil Works Construction 7,143,500 148,639,833 76,414,758 37,545,052 1,190,130 1,498,251 46,864,792 3,685,815 3,855,847 7,500,000 500,000 6,096 800,000 140,000 610,000 21,552,299 2,388,839 72,450,651 819,424 1,510,891 3,885,449 11,780,819 192,035,516 0 0 15,000 0 0 4,284 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 11,945,118 0 1,050 10,500 766,007 26,693,518 Total Cash Direct Payment and Commodity Grant 292,801,895 225,039,591 38,735,182 1,493,967 62,406,454 6,096 1,550,000 21,552,299 63,713,796 1,509,841 3,874,949 11,014,812 173,871,544 7,143,500 148,639,833 76,399,758 37,545,052 1,190,130 1,493,967 46,864,792 3,685,815 3,855,847 7,500,000 500,000 6,096 800,000 140,000 610,000 21,552,299 2,388,839 60,505,533 819,424 1,509,841 3,874,949 11,014,812 165,341,998 Cash Total 201,362,275 91,439,620 220,633,426 38,735,182 1,087,384 62,404,528 6,096 1,550,000 21,552,299 34,119,504 1,266,084 3,366,746 8,109,524 121,203,192 4,406,165 0 406,583 1,926 0 0 0 29,594,292 243,757 508,203 2,905,288 52,668,352 7,143,500 148,639,833 71,993,593 37,545,052 1,190,130 1,087,384 46,864,792 3,683,929 3,855,807 7,500,000 500,000 6,096 800,000 140,000 610,000 21,552,299 2,388,839 31,066,435 664,230 1,266,084 3,366,746 8,109,524 115,195,144 0 0 4,406,165 0 0 406,583 0 1,886 40 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 29,439,098 155,194 243,757 508,203 2,905,288 50,146,854 GoN Foreign Cash Economic Heads and Expenditure Line Items 1,278,994,855 Grand Total 114,346,609 Finance 140,287,431 43,518,600 29700 29800 31100 31200 32100 32200 Capital Research & Consultancy Capital Contingencies Net Internal Loan Net Investment External Net Borrowing Domestic Net Borrowing 16,408,201 3,777,110 34,762,889 55,355,542 30,121,145 20,047,855 2,920,657 0 18,416,079 25,102,521 0 0 29621 29711 29712 29811 31111 31211 31221 32111 32211 Capital Formation Capital Research & Consultancy Software Development and Purchase Capital Contingencies Internal Loan to Corporations Share InvestmentsCorporations Foreign Share Investments External Amortization Domestic Amortization 8,566,771 14,828,802 1,579,399 3,777,110 34,762,889 51,754,125 3,601,417 30,121,145 20,047,855 37,225 2,586,519 334,138 0 18,416,079 25,102,521 0 0 0 Total Cash Direct Payment and Commodity Grant 1,164,648,246 96,768,831 13,487,544 3,777,110 16,346,810 30,253,021 30,121,145 20,047,855 8,529,546 12,242,283 1,245,261 3,777,110 16,346,810 26,651,604 3,601,417 30,121,145 20,047,855 Cash Total 992,791,798 171,856,448 85,178,282 11,590,549 8,994,816 2,750,110 9,090,261 25,919,021 30,121,145 20,047,855 4,492,728 1,027,000 7,256,549 4,334,000 0 0 6,008,048 8,250,149 744,667 2,750,110 9,090,261 22,317,604 3,601,417 30,121,145 20,047,855 2,521,498 3,992,134 500,594 1,027,000 7,256,549 4,334,000 0 0 0 GoN Foreign Cash Economic Heads and Expenditure Line Items 2016/17 Estimate Source Grant Loan Fiscal Year 2017/18 2015/16 Actual Head of State Constitutional Body President Deputy President Legislature Parliament Courts Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Public Service Commission Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission National Women Commission National Dalit Commission National Inclusion Commission Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital 96,639 230,957 28,880 28,504 1,197,365 25,845 2,677,875 762,542 509,174 207,320 371,931 4,383 469,843 57,848 405,719 26,311 84,418 2,663 468,825 198,043 42,112 5,024 118,533 178,696 30,863 4,574 1,407,974 34,733 3,185,413 903,605 728,020 350,456 324,303 153,901 529,951 48,304 9,978,801 86,628 171,515 18,020 547,378 269,841 48,364 1,513 126,742 31,662 38,095 5,370 1,693,597 50,080 4,251,708 969,957 862,710 309,998 401,999 218,199 616,152 67,580 594,655 114,458 200,849 3,825 691,008 250,247 66,380 9,087 25,516 10,000 25,516 10,000 25,516 10,000 126,742 31,662 38,095 5,370 1,693,597 50,080 4,251,708 969,957 862,710 309,998 401,999 218,199 616,152 67,580 594,655 114,458 200,849 3,825 691,008 250,247 66,380 9,087 25,516 10,000 25,516 10,000 25,516 10,000 158,404 43,465 1,743,677 5,221,665 1,172,708 620,198 683,732 709,113 204,674 941,255 75,467 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 158,404 43,465 1,743,677 5,221,665 1,172,708 620,198 683,732 709,113 204,674 941,255 75,467 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 297,229 35,437 1,442,707 4,089,018 1,078,476 478,204 578,255 10,065,429 189,535 817,219 49,877 327,596 57,384 1,223,210 3,440,417 716,494 376,314 527,691 432,030 87,081 666,868 47,136 332,666 18,788,720 384,980 7,517,241 201,869 11,737,033 201,869 11,737,033 Administrative Expenditure Estimates (Including Financing) (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 7 2017/18 Heading GON 2016/17 Estimate Source Grant Loan 2015/16 Actual Ministry Indigenous Nationalities Commission Madhesi Commission Tharu Commission Muslim Commission Chief of State Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Supply Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Home Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Finance Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent 10,145,422 428,996 3,296,645 1,138,937 1,483,198 845,665 916,817 543,875 98,286 7,703 20,110,065 1,985,012 37,033,140 53,348,926 42,633,448 8,519,153 1,843,814 832,970 51,176 2,978,832 3,284,182 1,060,184 8,153,120 3,522,500 201,186 4,373 21,179,173 3,228,429 1,270,569 18,337,173 44,373,255 25,516 10,000 25,516 10,000 25,516 10,000 25,516 10,000 25,516 10,000 45,416 35,000 77,279,319 72,342,754 10,016,545 1,978,507 924,056 70,854 3,819,671 4,358,303 1,797,466 12,853,939 4,648,000 211,165 6,788 20,463,887 3,798,050 1,670,333 21,033,740 47,680,931 25,516 10,000 25,516 10,000 25,516 10,000 25,516 10,000 25,516 10,000 45,416 35,000 22,633,780 26,142,172 7,931,738 1,148,629 924,056 37,854 2,853,707 4,273,508 1,760,566 12,305,861 2,648,000 211,165 6,788 15,100,999 2,576,909 1,375,000 10,273,146 47,638,109 14,548,906 9,439,726 1,084,807 829,878 33,000 601,628 84,795 36,900 214,457 3,452,364 454,680 172,405 809,196 42,822 40,096,633 36,760,856 1,000,000 364,336 333,621 2,000,000 1,910,524 766,461 122,928 9,951,398 76,857,489 1,000,000 364,336 2,333,621 2,676,985 10,074,326 23,988,632 1,914,685 33,000 686,423 251,357 3,907,044 981,601 3,243,699 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 80,416 48,775,952 9,080,367 961,910 7,127,215 16,714,427 217,953 17,677,908 11,648,146 51,848,791 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 80,416 149,622,073 11,995,052 994,910 8,177,974 19,299,405 217,953 24,261,937 22,704,073 55,092,490 95,982,374 10,362,967 884,146 6,263,014 12,735,804 205,559 24,407,602 19,607,742 49,448,622 10,574,418 4,435,582 2,328,863 1,460,692 105,989 22,095,077 39,530,792 678,197,003 422,125,330 738,277,064 163,349,584 65,323,159 509,604,321 2017/18 Heading GON 2016/17 Estimate Source Grant Loan 2015/16 Actual Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Commerce Ministry of Population and environment Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Defence Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Education Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent 2,497,652 2,056,799 991,823 3,407,523 736,769 5,802,609 4,147,809 941,684 639,285 5,128,881 359,951 2,724,701 722,765 5,727,736 37,127,540 1,667,908 140,268 1,861,742 10,389 29,541,303 3,918,119 4,110,585 17,199,812 553,378 1,791,919 90,456,232 5,075,367 3,914,053 1,374,037 3,370,859 2,076,599 5,990,282 1,666,936 8,210,730 4,400,376 367,178 738,158 6,167,069 928,111 347,817 435,707 4,474,973 947,377 6,106,366 62,449,567 2,027,665 215,374 2,107,044 231,684 32,201,552 3,476,813 5,266,954 16,074,487 1,258,846 1,810,739 107,123,027 7,411,559 3,870,283 1,223,081 3,550,487 2,755,510 4,387,130 1,747,608 10,320,366 5,024,028 690,759 1,093,990 5,932,805 1,714,978 449,873 762,148 5,506,813 1,191,809 7,050,577 89,506,687 2,023,293 205,137 2,239,610 2,826 39,921,752 5,164,366 8,566,642 21,916,400 954,976 777,581 65,716,450 4,210,682 3,346,818 1,213,363 3,550,487 2,755,510 4,032,212 1,466,757 9,943,640 3,965,283 565,355 48,000 3,521,672 654,285 449,873 762,148 5,506,813 1,191,809 6,952,025 60,714,500 1,672,792 198,937 2,227,610 2,826 39,921,752 5,164,366 2,938,233 10,779,702 619,752 777,581 54,846,792 3,200,877 523,465 9,718 219,260 69,406 376,726 1,058,745 124,904 568,930 2,281,133 159,117 98,552 2,816,265 350,501 6,200 12,000 533,632 441,991 335,224 4,147,773 135,658 211,445 500 477,060 130,000 901,576 25,975,922 5,094,777 10,694,707 6,721,885 347,103 477,560 1,031,576 25,975,922 15,789,484 6,783,033 533,183 288,666 1,435,471 693,834 2,440,250 2,914,817 356,701 12,000 975,623 335,224 4,174,808 4,560,181 6,305,997 5,498,969 13,908,923 613,355 4,175,957 1,212,021 6,698,622 67,666,525 1,871,729 2,230,436 45,086,118 13,717,935 1,397,333 55,166,575 5,093,364 6,305,997 6,134,738 15,344,394 1,784,749 7,647,783 1,212,021 6,698,622 96,557,264 2,228,430 2,242,436 45,086,118 30,483,042 1,732,557 66,124,416 5,288,090 5,447,458 7,657,218 12,611,106 1,105,336 7,095,180 783,524 5,422,350 68,555,933 2,243,039 2,338,728 35,678,365 21,341,441 3,069,585 107,319,041 3,048,622 4,144,292 9,950,418 1,580,969 5,488,832 3,447,466 42,855,276 1,808,176 1,872,131 33,459,422 21,310,397 2,345,297 90,689,488 2017/18 Heading GON 2016/17 Estimate Source Grant Loan 2015/16 Actual MOF Financing & Debt Service MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Labour and Employment National Planning Commission Secretariat MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Recurrent Capital Finance Recurrent Finance Recurrent Finance Recurrent Finance Recurrent Recurrent Capital 233,256 1,008,559 57,188 745,354 30,040 1,201,343 18,848,812 3,407,072 221,847 47,290,893 16,048,821 25,838,417 3,391,399 774,903 127,332 556,279 44,872 39,564,744 5,362,161 50,334,947 2,811,727 14,745,787 499,152 3,049,140 27,621,953 20,451,559 6,563,134 196,014 1,637,499 97,962 1,000,379 29,199 1,361,009 20,470,185 3,604,744 488,881 81,481,234 23,573,187 32,237,972 4,425,956 774,356 175,953 903,286 80,977 63,959,109 16,866,766 19,405,260 3,827,479 21,115,877 547,944 4,224,641 68,002,721 9,604,190 31,009,281 407,966 1,598,156 70,710 1,060,586 41,052 1,855,171 25,550,669 4,383,542 592,857 52,768,237 29,085,656 25,881,257 5,899,842 947,092 195,079 1,232,327 73,033 83,039,014 26,244,580 20,047,855 3,980,523 29,039,819 574,855 3,512,743 60,833,000 55,135,409 14,173,000 319,783 1,598,156 70,710 1,060,586 41,052 1,637,580 16,475,857 4,383,542 592,857 49,795,916 14,033,191 20,999,092 2,585,994 680,364 180,719 1,232,327 73,033 29,929,865 26,244,580 20,047,855 3,980,523 29,039,819 574,855 3,512,743 60,833,000 55,135,409 14,173,000 27,035 173,853 1,161,721 1,972,321 7,221,545 4,482,165 863,448 266,728 14,360 4,763,184 61,148 43,738 7,913,091 1,000,000 7,830,920 400,000 2,450,400 48,345,965 7,956,829 8,830,920 2,850,400 48,345,965 1,335,574 9,193,866 5,345,613 281,088 4,763,184 1,668,866 1,101,638 18,113,437 4,976,399 63,829,107 23,585,086 861,083 1,305,360 29,929,865 46,292,435 33,020,342 4,087,598 60,833,000 69,308,409 1,668,866 1,101,638 27,405,840 4,976,399 81,853,893 31,781,099 1,142,171 1,305,360 83,039,014 46,292,435 33,020,342 4,087,598 60,833,000 69,308,409 1,735,461 1,029,578 21,831,194 4,093,625 105,054,421 36,663,928 950,309 984,263 63,959,109 36,272,026 24,943,356 4,772,585 68,002,721 40,613,471 1,065,747 775,394 20,050,155 3,628,919 63,339,714 29,229,816 902,235 601,151 39,564,744 55,697,108 17,557,514 3,548,292 27,621,953 27,014,693 129,947,076 108,616,192 116,367,658 54,636,646 166,439,389 130,141,409 48,345,965 4,763,184 113,330,240 130,141,409 2017/18 Heading GON 2016/17 Estimate Source Grant Loan 2015/16 Actual State Local level State Local Level Recurrent Recurrent 7,143,500 225,054,591 7,143,500 220,633,426 2,081,285 2,339,880 2,339,880 2,081,285 7,143,500 220,633,426 7,143,500 225,054,591 7,143,500 225,054,591 2,339,880 2,081,285 7,143,500 220,633,426 214,035,429 Total Expenditure 72,167,628 992,791,798 1,278,994,855 935,881,657 601,031,855 2017/18 Heading GON 2016/17 Estimate GON Grant Loan Expenditure by Economic Heads and LineItem(Including Financing) 2015/16 (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 8 Recurrent Expenditure Compensation of employees Fiscal Transfer Grants Wages and salaries Grant to Local Level Grant to State Grant to Local body Grant to Social Service Grant to Social Service 130,529,080 225,054,591 7,143,500 9,045,106 1,012,658 174,680,416 130,529,080 232,198,091 184,738,180 803,531,454 Salary Local Allowances Dearness Allowance Field Allowance Other Allowance Clothing Fooding Medical Expense Fiscal Equalization Grant Conditional Grant Complementary Grant Special Grant Fiscal Equalization Grant Conditional Grant Complementary Grant Special Grant Unconditional Capital Grant to Local Bodies Conditional Capital Grant to Local Bodies Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies Conditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies International Membership Fee& Assistance Unconditional Capital Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Unconditional Capital Grant to Other Institutions & Individuals 98,646,819 1,349,709 3,458,707 209,212 5,687,565 6,600,070 13,685,460 891,538 148,639,833 76,414,758 7,143,500 86,756 7,746,671 125,956 1,085,723 1,012,658 14,688,000 21,396,734 76,989,094 98,382,567 1,349,521 3,457,989 184,001 5,666,729 6,599,675 13,684,940 889,996 148,639,833 71,993,593 7,143,500 86,756 2,302,993 125,956 446,018 1,012,658 14,688,000 14,801,629 24,035,753 229,878 307 8,150 17,231 139 520 1,092 2,081,285 427,999 614,454 2,111,021 15,763,410 34,374 188 411 17,061 3,605 256 450 2,339,880 5,015,679 25,251 4,484,084 37,189,931 Wages and salaries in cash Wages and salaries in kind Grant to Local Level Grant to State Capital Grant to Local Body Recurrent Grant to Local Body International Membership Fee& A Capital Grant 109,352,012 21,177,068 225,054,591 7,143,500 7,833,427 1,211,679 1,012,658 113,073,828 21000 28900 26000 21100 26600 26500 26300 26200 26400 21110 21120 26610 26510 26320 26310 26210 26420 21111 21112 21113 21114 21119 21121 21122 21123 26611 26612 26613 26614 26511 26512 26513 26514 26321 26322 26311 26312 26211 26421 26422 26423 370,986,807 Actual 89,268,215 33,858,411 185,196 136,804,097 129,637,036 49,518,638 797,492 197,275,538 129,637,036 247,591,668 89,268,215 170,847,704 561,619,357 66,797,296 1,207,150 3,152,603 111,975 2,968,466 2,471,627 12,195,889 363,209 12,404,809 6,169,072 1,600,827 13,683,703 185,196 9,822,313 3,813,979 36,334,019 102,985,510 1,616,642 3,322,548 260,914 5,044,309 3,648,043 12,084,271 674,799 23,204,375 12,799,779 1,766,282 11,748,202 797,492 13,466,074 15,409,633 66,166,143 74,237,490 15,030,725 18,573,881 15,284,530 185,196 49,970,311 113,229,923 16,407,113 36,004,154 13,514,484 797,492 95,041,850 2017/18 Heading Source Fiscal Year 2017/18 706251241 130215418 227776926 110378143 130215418 220633426 7143500 2961723 1012658 106403762 109040807 21174611 220633426 7143500 2389749 571974 1012658 53525382 37919354 257317 2081285 23192982 255566 1751 2081285 0 427999 614454 0 17874431 257317 2081285 0 1042453 0 22150529 59360859 56345 2339880 51167055 56345 2339880 0 5040930 0 46126125 55639 706 2339880 0 5015679 25251 0 41674015 2016/17 Estimate GON Grant Loan 2015/16 Interest and Services Other Expenditure Social Security Subsidies Interest on Foreign Loan Interest on Internal Loan Property Related Expenditure Refunds Retirement Benefits Scholarships Social Security Subsidies to Private Enterprises 4,555,378 26,244,580 6,096 1,550,000 62,406,454 1,498,251 38,735,182 223,163 30,799,958 1,556,096 102,639,887 1,016,469 Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies,Committees & Boards Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Other Institutions & Individuals Interest on Foreign Loan Interest on Internal Loan Land Rent Revenue Refund Judicial Refund Other Refund Pensions and Disability Allowance Gratuity Accumulated Leave Medical Facility Deceased Staff Assistance Scholarships Conditional Social Security Subsidy Other Unconditional Social Assistance Operating Subsidies to Financial Private Enterprises 4,448,711 47,617,752 9,540,125 4,555,378 26,244,580 6,096 800,000 140,000 610,000 46,864,792 3,685,815 3,855,847 7,500,000 500,000 1,498,251 37,545,052 1,190,130 849 4,289,126 41,572,086 7,017,168 4,555,378 26,244,580 6,096 800,000 140,000 610,000 46,864,792 3,683,929 3,855,807 7,500,000 500,000 1,087,384 37,545,052 1,190,130 127 159,585 2,976,806 1,139,707 585 12 133,121 3,068,860 1,383,250 1,301 28 277,746 722 Recurrent Grant Interest on Foreign Loan Interest on Internal Loan Land Rent Refunds Retirement Benefits Scholarships Social Security Subsidies to Financial Enterprise Subsidies to Non-Financial Enter 61,606,588 4,555,378 26,244,580 6,096 1,550,000 62,406,454 1,498,251 38,735,182 849 222,314 24000 28000 27000 25000 24100 24200 28100 28200 27300 27200 27100 25200 26410 24110 24210 28140 28210 27310 27210 27110 25220 25210 26411 26412 26413 24111 24211 28141 28211 28212 28213 27311 27312 27313 27314 27315 27211 27111 27112 25221 Actual 3,310,879 5,362,161 6,203 227,800 35,762,360 1,965,547 19,019,202 288,363 4,375,423 16,866,766 6,162 1,380,060 53,381,051 2,282,319 32,893,740 1,050,690 21,242,189 1,386,222 88,557,110 1,695,546 8,673,040 234,003 56,747,109 941,842 2,646,420 72,480,268 11,707,098 3,310,879 5,362,161 6,203 543 74,297 152,960 27,083,255 560,228 3,197,564 4,862,472 58,841 1,965,547 15,872,520 3,146,682 3,743,578 90,139,580 8,350,530 4,375,423 16,866,766 6,162 460,000 128,860 791,200 38,887,511 1,053,304 6,242,893 7,059,343 138,000 2,282,319 31,972,700 921,040 86,833,786 3,310,879 5,362,161 6,203 227,800 35,762,360 1,965,547 19,019,202 288,363 102,233,688 4,375,423 16,866,766 6,162 1,380,060 53,381,051 2,282,319 32,893,740 1,050,690 2017/18 Heading Source 30799958 1556096 102227094 791779 4555378 26244580 6096 1550000 62404528 1087384 38735182 93374 52878380 4555378 26244580 6096 1550000 62404528 1087384 38735182 127 93247 0 0 133718 207217 4276098 0 0 0 0 597 133121 0 0 112316 0 0 0 0 597 133121 0 112316 0 0 279075 17473 0 0 0 0 1329 277746 0 17473 4452110 0 0 0 0 1329 277746 0 722 16751 2016/17 Estimate GON Grant Loan 2015/16 Use of goods and services Subsidies to Public Corporations Consultancy and Other Services fee Miscellaneous Monitoring,Evaluation & Travelling Expenses Offices Materials & Services Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets Program Expenses 793,306 12,252,770 1,278,851 3,691,023 5,440,695 5,967,789 37,247,687 120,053,693 Operating Subsidies to NonFinancial Private Enterprises Capital Subsidies to NonFinancial Private Enterprises Operating Subsidy NonFinancial Corporations Capital Subsidy Non-Financial Corporations Consultancy and Services Expenses Other Services fee Miscellaneous Monitoring & Evaluation Expenses Travelling Expenses Travelling Expenses of VIPs & Delegations Other Travelling Expenses General Office Expenses Feedds for Animals & Birds Books and Materials Fuel and Oil For Administrative Purposes Repair and Maintenance of Public Property Fuel and Oil Vehicles Operation & Maintenance Insurance Employee Training Skill Development and Awareness Training Program Medicine Purchases 27,562 194,752 588,176 205,130 6,344,755 5,908,015 1,278,851 1,855,479 1,728,622 65,000 41,922 3,702,609 161,409 51,236 196,484 1,328,957 3,058,023 2,434,835 474,931 1,422,357 5,511,099 5,863,749 7,811 85,436 493,275 205,130 3,130,559 5,562,577 1,241,655 1,549,289 1,503,272 65,000 41,922 3,504,387 160,909 47,127 193,111 1,319,139 2,957,514 2,348,949 463,759 1,113,600 2,973,802 2,866,979 16,120 96,196 94,901 2,444,461 202,405 31,006 266,139 205,160 175,329 500 2,768 2,539 5,910 86,362 69,871 9,929 277,952 1,867,927 2,596,770 3,631 13,120 769,735 143,033 6,190 40,051 20,190 22,893 1,341 834 3,908 14,147 16,015 1,243 30,805 669,370 400,000 Operating Subsidy Non-Financia Consultancy and Other Services f Miscellaneous Monitoring,Evaluation & Travellin Office Materials & Services Repair and Maintenance of Public Operation & Maintenance of Capi Consultancy and Other Services f Medicines 793,306 12,252,770 1,278,851 3,691,023 4,111,738 1,328,957 5,967,789 6,933,456 5,863,749 22000 25100 22400 22700 22600 22300 22200 22500 25110 22410 22710 22610 22310 22320 22210 22510 22530 25211 25212 25111 25112 22411 22412 22711 22611 22612 22613 22614 22311 22312 22313 22314 22321 22211 22212 22213 22511 22512 22531 Actual 653,479 5,253,578 5,941,150 2,339,655 3,744,611 4,011,943 19,771,250 644,856 8,729,735 11,274,548 4,424,189 5,340,196 4,747,480 31,663,786 71,509,586 44,274,894 136,390 151,973 482,049 171,430 1,866,547 3,387,031 5,941,150 1,298,299 983,560 42,354 15,442 3,219,130 134,349 29,698 157,550 203,884 1,990,567 1,696,396 324,980 736,082 3,723,229 4,535,190 220,257 830,433 411,534 233,322 4,066,131 4,663,604 11,274,548 1,991,284 2,316,032 59,800 57,073 4,456,636 125,513 57,170 241,044 459,833 2,711,158 1,704,396 331,926 1,175,719 4,513,716 4,665,831 653,479 5,253,578 5,941,150 2,339,655 3,540,727 203,884 4,011,943 4,459,311 4,535,190 644,856 8,729,735 11,274,548 4,424,189 4,880,363 459,833 4,747,480 5,689,435 4,665,831 2017/18 Heading Source 102505827 698405 8693136 1241655 3159483 5224673 5770222 25358244 698405 8693136 1241655 3159483 3905534 1319139 5770222 4087402 2866979 12046835 94901 2646866 31006 471299 181136 5910 166162 2145879 2596770 94901 2646866 31006 471299 187046 166162 8450047 5501031 0 912768 6190 60241 28976 31405 3439396 0 912768 6190 60241 25068 3908 31405 700175 400000 2016/17 Estimate GON Grant Loan 2015/16 Capital Expenditure Capital Expenditure Recurrent Contingencies Rent & Services Building Capital Contingencies Capital Research & Consultancy Civil Works Furniture & Fittings Land 48,738,766 5,436,112 75,658,914 3,777,110 16,408,201 200,602,287 1,510,891 21,552,299 335,175,970 335,175,970 Production Materials/Services Program Expenses Other Program Expenses Recurrent Contingencies House Rent Other Rent Water and Electricity Communication Building Purchase Building Construction Capital Formation Building Capital Contingencies Capital Research & Consultancy Software Development and Purchase Capital Formation Civil Works Construction Furniture & Fixtures Land Acquisition 1,132,725 22,951,132 366,625 48,738,766 2,257,442 134,261 2,073,134 971,275 2,388,839 72,450,651 819,424 3,777,110 14,828,802 1,579,399 8,566,771 192,035,516 1,510,891 21,552,299 1,111,070 16,928,667 364,126 47,743,966 2,187,502 120,750 2,059,645 946,551 2,388,839 31,066,435 664,230 2,750,110 8,250,149 744,667 6,008,048 115,195,144 1,266,084 21,552,299 21,655 3,683,244 2,499 51,898 11,431 10,428 20,652 11,256,508 26,544 30,000 3,033,034 808,804 69,673 11,909,414 48,255 2,339,221 994,800 18,042 2,080 3,061 4,072 30,127,708 128,650 997,000 3,545,619 25,928 2,489,050 64,930,958 196,552 Production Materials and Program Recurrent Contingencies Rent Utilities Building Purchase Building Construction Capital Formation Building Capital Contingencies Capital Research & Consultancy Capital Formation Civil Works Civil Works Construction Furniture & Fittings Land Acquisition 24,450,482 48,738,766 2,391,703 3,044,409 2,388,839 72,450,651 819,424 3,777,110 16,408,201 8,566,771 192,035,516 1,510,891 21,552,299 29000 22900 22100 29200 29800 29700 29600 29300 29100 22520 22910 22120 22110 29210 29220 29230 29810 29710 29620 29610 29310 29110 22521 22522 22529 22911 22121 22122 22111 22112 29211 29221 29231 29811 29711 29712 29621 29611 29311 29111 122,350,430 Actual 3,212,707 17,600,734 5,210,133 88,664,903 675,869 2,825,947 5,329,652 72,713,168 13,190,171 151,546,989 1,215,088 10,398,644 262,034,913 122,350,430 262,034,913 1,025,351 9,483,654 267,744 1,510,401 66,985 1,078,917 556,404 495,100 16,708,101 397,533 5,049,328 160,805 4,572,546 84,092,357 675,869 2,825,947 959,442 19,929,965 419,113 1,841,520 828,233 1,749,039 910,860 1,947,159 70,140,176 625,833 12,121,800 1,068,371 8,526,514 143,020,475 1,215,088 10,398,644 10,776,749 1,577,386 1,635,321 495,100 16,708,101 397,533 5,210,133 4,572,546 84,092,357 675,869 2,825,947 21,308,520 2,669,753 2,659,899 1,947,159 70,140,176 625,833 13,190,171 8,526,514 143,020,475 1,215,088 10,398,644 2017/18 Heading Source 201362275 201362275 47743966 5314448 34119504 2750110 8994816 121203192 1266084 21552299 18403863 47743966 2308252 3006196 2388839 31066435 664230 2750110 8994816 6008048 115195144 1266084 21552299 29485090 29485090 3707398 0 63329 31080 0 11256508 26544 30000 3841838 69673 11909414 48255 0 0 94409 11283052 30000 3841838 11979087 48255 0 104328605 104328605 994800 27255 30256358 997000 3571547 67420008 196552 0 2339221 994800 20122 7133 0 30127708 128650 997000 3571547 2489050 64930958 196552 0 2016/17 Estimate GON Grant Loan 2015/16 Finance Fiscal Policy (L-R) Liquidity Plant & Machinery Vehicles Net Internal Loan Net Investment Domestic Net Borrowing External Net Borrowing 11,780,819 3,885,449 34,762,889 55,355,542 20,047,855 30,121,145 90,118,431 50,169,000 140,287,431 214,035,429 Total Expenditure 72,167,628 992,791,798 1,278,994,855 Plant & Machinery Vehicles Internal Loan to Corporations Share InvestmentsCorporations Foreign Share Investments Domestic Amortization External Amortization 11,780,819 3,885,449 34,762,889 51,754,125 3,601,417 20,047,855 30,121,145 8,109,524 3,366,746 9,090,261 22,317,604 3,601,417 20,047,855 30,121,145 2,082,177 220,681 1,408,784 3,354,400 1,589,118 298,022 24,263,844 26,082,121 Plant & Machinery Vehicles Internal Loan Domestic Share Investments Foreign Share Investments Domestic Amortization External Amortizations 11,780,819 3,885,449 34,762,889 51,754,125 3,601,417 20,047,855 30,121,145 31000 32000 29500 29400 31100 31200 32200 32100 29510 29410 31110 31210 31220 32210 32110 29511 29411 31111 31211 31221 32211 32111 107,694,618 Actual 5,153,168 2,219,676 26,863,955 12,700,789 50,334,947 17,794,927 9,566,221 3,404,632 45,621,880 21,859,729 19,405,260 25,340,518 67,481,609 44,745,778 39,564,744 68,129,874 112,227,387 935,881,657 601,031,855 5,153,168 2,219,676 26,863,955 11,994,018 706,771 50,334,947 17,794,927 9,566,221 3,404,632 45,621,880 20,884,729 975,000 19,405,260 25,340,518 5,153,168 2,219,676 26,863,955 11,994,018 706,771 50,334,947 17,794,927 9,566,221 3,404,632 45,621,880 20,884,729 975,000 19,405,260 25,340,518 2017/18 Heading Source 85178282 35009282 50169000 8109524 3366746 9090261 25919021 20047855 30121145 8109524 3366746 9090261 22317604 3601417 20047855 30121145 4763184 4763184 0 2082177 220681 1408784 3354400 0 0 0 2082177 220681 1408784 3354400 0 0 50345965 50345965 0 1589118 298022 24263844 26082121 0 0 1589118 298022 24263844 26082121 0 0 0 Development 2015/16 Actual 2016/17 Compensation of employees Use of goods and services Subsidies Grants Social Security Other Expenditure Fiscal Transfer Capital Expenditure Wages and salaries Rent & Services Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets Offices Materials & Services Consultancy and Other Services fee Program Expenses Monitoring,Evaluation & Travelling Expenses Miscellaneous Recurrent Contingencies Subsidies to Public Corporations Subsidies to Private Enterprises Grant to Social Service Grant to Local body Grant to Social Service Social Security Scholarships Retirement Benefits Property Related Expenditure Refunds Grant to State Grant to Local Level Land Building Furniture & Fittings Vehicles Plant & Machinery Civil Works Capital Research & Consultancy Capital Contingencies 4,610,486 513,620 629,880 791,098 3,074,497 16,736,743 854,568 125,829 193,480 288,363 1,362 32,571,679 72,407,914 2,182,411 1,606,303 228,373 171 543 1,993,268 12,945,901 285,090 695,572 2,196,861 86,327,765 5,125,987 8,200,906 791,851 919,782 1,309,356 4,959,403 26,413,121 1,498,883 228,897 253,857 1,050,690 3,709 47,685,240 124,316,003 2,176,926 1,889,378 213,883 550 9,200 9,174,730 64,558,381 679,783 2,057,235 5,926,483 148,894,579 12,723,367 10,204,589 1,042,643 1,069,441 1,355,180 8,214,876 30,014,031 1,565,777 220,669 2,601,000 340,105 223,163 2,765 8,828,950 146,932,861 2,010,217 1,159,225 317,273 964 10,000 7,143,500 225,054,591 17,558,276 63,636,121 854,637 1,370,460 7,045,538 198,142,369 15,698,566 2,583,500 9,890,927 923,379 872,234 1,140,558 4,661,242 18,229,828 1,040,437 183,473 2,601,000 245,204 93,374 2,765 2,745,567 80,321,618 2,010,217 748,358 315,347 964 10,000 7,143,500 220,633,426 17,558,276 25,135,011 610,330 854,757 3,375,443 118,776,274 8,288,681 2,583,500 257,317 92,009 165,802 185,646 2,646,066 8,344,807 465,099 31,006 94,901 112,316 1,042,453 20,485,118 133,121 597 2,081,285 8,244,752 47,755 220,681 2,080,977 11,946,087 3,838,338 56,345 27,255 31,405 28,976 907,568 3,439,396 60,241 6,190 17,473 5,040,930 46,126,125 277,746 1,329 2,339,880 30,256,358 196,552 295,022 1,589,118 67,420,008 3,571,547 56,345 4,501,031 17,473 51,167,055 279,075 2,339,880 103,328,605 257,317 11,930,435 207,217 21,527,571 133,718 2,081,285 26,378,590 9,890,927 29,652,151 338,578 83,069,950 3,073,922 10,964 227,776,926 177,182,272 10,204,589 46,083,617 563,268 155,764,576 3,486,715 10,964 232,198,091 306,889,467 8,200,906 36,121,293 1,304,547 172,004,952 4,280,187 9,750 244,014,558 4,610,486 22,726,235 481,843 104,980,955 4,017,087 714 109,570,444 755,201,287 246,387,764 465,936,193 161,689,464 62,516,133 530,995,690 Total Estimate GON Grant Loan Fiscal Year 2017/18 Line Item wise Estimates (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 9 2017/18 Source Heading Regular 2015/16 Actual 2016/17 Compensation of employees Use of goods and services Interest and Services Subsidies Grants Social Security Other Expenditure Capital Expenditure Wages and salaries Rent & Services Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets Offices Materials & Services Consultancy and Other Services fee Program Expenses Monitoring,Evaluation & Travelling Expenses Miscellaneous Recurrent Contingencies Interest on Foreign Loan Interest on Internal Loan Subsidies to Public Corporations Grant to Social Service Grant to Local body Grant to Social Service Social Security Scholarships Retirement Benefits Property Related Expenditure Refunds Land Building Furniture & Fittings Vehicles Plant & Machinery Civil Works Capital Research & Consultancy Capital Contingencies 84,657,729 2,699,087 3,382,063 2,953,513 2,179,081 3,034,507 1,485,087 5,815,321 3,310,879 5,362,161 459,999 183,834 1,286,732 64,396,183 16,836,791 359,244 35,533,987 6,032 227,257 832,679 4,654,833 390,779 1,524,104 2,956,307 2,337,138 84,146 121,436,130 4,537,801 3,827,698 4,030,840 3,770,332 5,250,665 2,925,306 11,045,651 4,375,423 16,866,766 390,999 793,783 1,833,398 72,959,535 30,716,814 392,941 53,167,168 5,612 1,370,860 1,223,914 8,154,787 535,305 1,347,397 3,639,738 2,652,410 466,804 120,324,491 4,393,469 4,898,348 4,085,515 4,037,894 7,233,656 2,125,246 1,058,182 46,137,766 4,555,378 26,244,580 453,201 1,009,893 216,156 27,747,555 36,724,965 339,026 62,089,181 5,132 1,540,000 3,994,023 12,022,793 656,254 2,514,989 4,735,281 2,459,918 709,635 1,193,610 120,324,491 4,391,069 4,897,988 4,084,115 4,031,894 7,128,416 2,119,046 1,058,182 45,142,966 4,555,378 26,244,580 453,201 1,009,893 216,156 26,082,144 36,724,965 339,026 62,089,181 5,132 1,540,000 3,994,023 8,984,493 655,754 2,511,989 4,734,081 2,426,918 706,135 166,610 2,400 360 1,400 800 105,240 6,200 1,665,411 3,038,300 500 1,200 33,000 3,500 30,000 5,200 994,800 3,000 997,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 116,400 1,665,411 3,106,500 120,324,491 72,853,676 30,799,958 453,201 27,308,193 99,153,172 1,545,132 24,180,003 120,324,491 73,970,076 30,799,958 453,201 28,973,604 99,153,172 1,545,132 28,286,503 121,436,130 35,388,293 21,242,189 390,999 75,586,716 84,276,923 1,376,472 18,020,355 84,657,729 21,548,659 8,673,040 459,999 65,866,749 52,730,022 233,289 12,779,986 383,506,137 246,949,473 357,718,077 2,000,000 4,888,311 376,617,826 Total Estimate GON Grant Loan 2017/18 Source Heading Head of State Constitutional Body Ministry President Deputy President Legislature Parliament Courts Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Public Service Commission Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission National Women Commission National Dalit Commission National Inclusion Commission Indigenous Nationalities Commission Madhesi Commission Tharu Commission Muslim Commission Chief of State Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Supply Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Commerce Ministry of Population and environment Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport 15,84,04 4,34,65 1,74,36,77 5,22,16,65 1,17,27,08 62,01,98 68,37,32 70,91,13 20,46,74 94,12,55 7,54,67 3,55,16 3,55,16 3,55,16 3,55,16 3,55,16 3,55,16 3,55,16 3,55,16 8,04,16 1,49,62,20,73 11,99,50,52 99,49,10 8,17,79,74 19,29,94,05 21,79,53 24,26,19,37 22,70,40,73 55,09,24,90 5,09,33,64 6,30,59,97 6,13,47,38 15,34,43,94 1,78,47,49 7,64,77,83 1,21,20,21 6,69,86,22 96,55,72,64 15,84,04 4,34,65 1,74,36,77 3,75,26,45 72,28,25 38,42,30 57,30,72 57,64,49 20,46,74 64,27,15 7,54,67 3,55,16 3,55,16 3,55,16 3,55,16 3,55,16 3,55,16 3,55,16 3,55,16 8,04,16 3,02,87,35 6,45,82,47 82,01,35 1,51,08,64 1,18,66,70 21,79,53 63,22,66 24,41,76 54,75,01,60 1,17,84,71 6,30,59,97 49,77,24 8,08,80,40 55,68,84 72,54,08 23,28,14 3,17,44,77 2,26,10,38 0 0 0 1,46,90,20 44,98,83 23,59,68 11,06,60 13,26,64 0 29,85,40 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,46,59,33,38 5,53,68,05 17,47,75 6,66,71,10 18,11,27,35 0 23,62,96,71 22,45,98,97 34,23,30 3,91,48,93 0 5,63,70,14 7,25,63,54 1,22,78,65 6,92,23,75 97,92,07 3,52,41,45 94,29,62,26 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,46,90,20 44,98,83 23,59,68 11,06,60 13,26,64 0 29,85,40 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,46,59,33,38 5,53,68,05 17,47,75 6,66,71,10 18,11,27,35 0 23,62,96,71 22,45,98,97 34,23,30 3,91,48,93 0 5,63,70,14 7,25,63,54 1,22,78,65 6,92,23,75 97,92,07 3,52,41,45 94,29,62,26 0 2,69,67,35 5,10,16,44,61 0 0 0 0 2,69,67,35 5,10,16,44,61 20,18,69 9,04,02,98 2,28,11,26,03 20,18,69 11,73,70,33 7,38,27,70,64 Regular State/Local Level Development Head Ministry wise Regular & Development Expenditure Budget Fiscal Year 2074/75 (Rs, in '000) Annex -10 Estimate Central Total (Including Financing) Ministry MOF Financing & Debt Service MOF Miscellaneous State Local level Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Defence Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Education Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Labour and Employment National Planning Commission Secretariat MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous State Local Level 2,22,84,30 2,24,24,36 45,08,61,18 30,48,30,42 1,73,25,57 66,12,44,16 1,66,88,66 1,10,16,38 27,40,58,40 4,97,63,99 81,85,38,93 31,78,10,99 1,14,21,71 1,30,53,60 83,03,90,14 46,29,24,35 33,02,03,42 4,08,75,98 60,83,30,00 69,30,84,09 7,14,35,00 2,25,05,45,91 23,79,88 1,99,35,31 45,08,61,18 1,96,18,36 37,69,13 36,13,88,12 1,23,14,58 82,89,16 1,07,44,85 4,72,63,99 38,36,31,55 2,94,38,11 45,75,32 82,15,90 0 46,29,24,35 33,02,03,42 4,08,75,98 60,83,30,00 54,51,84,09 0 0 1,99,04,42 24,89,05 0 28,52,12,06 1,35,56,44 29,98,56,04 43,74,08 27,27,22 26,33,13,55 25,00,00 43,49,07,38 28,83,72,88 68,46,39 48,37,70 83,03,90,14 0 0 0 0 14,79,00,00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7,14,35,00 2,25,05,45,91 1,99,04,42 24,89,05 0 28,52,12,06 1,35,56,44 29,98,56,04 43,74,08 27,27,22 26,33,13,55 25,00,00 43,49,07,38 28,83,72,88 68,46,39 48,37,70 83,03,90,14 0 0 0 0 14,79,00,00 7,14,35,00 2,25,05,45,91 83,03,90,14 14,79,00,00 7,14,35,00 2,25,05,45,91 0 0 7,14,35,00 2,25,05,45,91 83,03,90,14 14,79,00,00 0 0 83,40,03,75 1,15,35,14,09 0 0 1,66,43,93,89 1,30,14,14,09 7,14,35,00 2,25,05,45,91 6,10,69,02,10 12,78,99,48,55 8,42,88,83,01 2,32,19,80,91 4,36,10,65,54 Regular State/Local Level Development Head Estimate Central Total Total 1.1 Executive and legislative organs, financial and fiscal affairs, external affai 101 102 202 206 208 218 220 222 224 226 228 230 232 234 250 301 305 306 313 326 327 332 347 352 356 365 501 503 504 601 602 President Deputy President Legislature Parliament Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Council of Justice National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission National Women Commission National Dalit Commission National Inclusion Commission Indigenous Nationalities Commission Madhesi Commission Tharu Commission Muslim Commission Chief of State Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Supply Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICE 01 77,611,457 366,331,990 Function-wise Prioritization of Budget (Including Financing) 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 400,000 158,404 43,465 1,743,677 1,172,708 620,198 1,736 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 80,416 2,409,863 7,247,326 80,555 120,000 6,132,993 154,867 64,493 355,372 332,752 81,167 227,668 3,370,000 33,020,342 4,087,598 54,233,000 66,308,409 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 47,185,409 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 46,994 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,370,000 0 0 0 11,673,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 247,976 0 0 42,383 0 0 0 0 81,167 9,779 0 0 0 0 2,410,000 31,662 5,370 50,080 309,998 218,199 0 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 35,000 137,990 905,171 6,481 34,170 2,697,535 20,720 15,926 20,177 2,322 0 29,609 0 29,039,819 3,512,743 0 2,100,000 126,742 38,095 1,693,597 862,710 401,999 1,736 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 45,416 2,271,873 6,094,179 74,074 85,830 3,346,081 134,147 48,567 335,195 330,430 0 188,280 0 3,980,523 574,855 54,233,000 2,540,000 Recurrent Total 15,089,994 2,791,305 15,089,994 47,185,409 400,000 182,331,137 63,146,734 5,361,390 16,627,853 47,280,409 400,000 499,148,376 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Annex 11 (Rs. in '000') Fiscal Year 2017/18 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 Foreign economic aid General services Basic research R General public services General public services n.e.c. Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of government 357 210 301 305 314 325 326 329 347 356 365 391 602 357 305 212 214 314 337 365 501 305 501 502 365 701 Ministry of Irrigation Public Service Commission Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development National Planning Commission Secretariat MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Ministry of Home Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development State 3,427 19,197,075 2,205 8,889 11,056,966 26,253,880 232,198,091 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 795,036 683,732 246,526 1,227,753 12,398,760 605,903 173,004 40,402 199,589 1,020,471 2,127,638 1,305,360 3,000,000 34,087 9,082 709,113 204,674 84,819 21,464 10,300,000 130,000 9,300 1,000,000 46,292,435 2,000,000 7,143,500 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 95,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 11,168 9,182 0 0 0 1,980 15,529 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,000,000 0 500,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 447,046 142,558 0 0 344,287 64,425 71,769 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,500,000 0 791,609 67,580 14,470 962,868 365,348 5,816 1,799 800 190,000 41,052 1,016,882 57,504 0 31,882 193 114,458 3,825 39,821 10,000 0 130,000 0 0 20,047,855 0 0 3,427 616,152 232,056 264,885 12,033,412 141,873 19,465 39,602 9,589 635,132 1,044,351 1,160,558 3,000,000 2,205 8,889 594,655 200,849 44,998 11,464 10,205,000 0 9,300 0 26,244,580 0 7,143,500 Recurrent Total 0 37,859 0 0 0 1,000,000 500,000 0 1,070,085 0 0 0 0 1,500,000 0 37,859 0 0 0 1,000,000 500,000 0 0 0 0 95,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 795,036 23,029,138 34,087 9,082 11,450,070 47,301,735 234,198,091 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing 2.1 2.2 2.5 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.6 4.1 Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services Fire-protection services Law courts Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs 801 307 345 314 347 314 314 204 216 218 311 371 314 301 314 349 301 306 330 Local Level Ministry of Industry Ministry of Defence Ministry of Home Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Home Ministry of Home Courts Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Home Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Supply Ministry of Commerce DEFENCE PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY ECONOMIC AFFAIRS 02 03 04 39,167,415 11,297 0 30,417,057 13,596 5,084,214 1,234,101 4,519,759 77,883,508 39,178,712 41,268,727 138,882,601 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 187 0 0 0 0 225,054,591 375,568 44,398,196 94,581 87,575 35,602,929 14,044 5,221,665 941,255 73,731 217,953 16,347 1,784,257 872,778 4,151,434 1,732,557 146,036,158 645,231 1,784,749 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 11,392 0 0 0 0 0 0 264,187 0 85,290 0 0 3,026 0 0 1,624 4,463 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 256,380 0 2,285 0 0 101,872 0 0 32,439 11,884 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 185,603 4,900,179 83,284 0 5,185,872 448 966,931 250,247 9,087 5,164 0 550,156 598,148 849,702 777,581 71,591,418 46,500 1,093,990 225,054,591 189,965 38,977,450 11,297 0 30,417,057 13,596 4,149,836 691,008 64,644 178,726 0 1,234,101 274,630 3,290,153 954,976 74,444,740 598,731 690,759 Recurrent Total 264,187 0 85,290 0 0 9,113 0 0 14,360 256,380 0 2,285 0 0 146,195 0 0 284,672 264,187 0 85,290 0 0 9,113 0 0 14,360 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 11,392 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 187 0 44,773,764 94,581 87,575 35,602,929 14,044 6,470,951 1,784,257 6,756,769 152,817,328 5,169,066 9,193,336 283,809,959 258,665 146,195 6,726,140 349,477 9,113 23,647,304 0 11,392 749,651 0 187 787,451 44,955,920 50,628,950 454,603,106 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting Fuel and energy Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport Communication Other industries 365 371 305 312 327 329 336 352 357 365 501 307 308 331 501 307 337 332 337 347 365 501 332 358 501 306 307 Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Finance Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Population and environment MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Information and Communications MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Supply Ministry of Industry 39,664,768 5,840,165 144,998 7,164,233 3,799,028 3,564,122 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 41,539 0 0 0 17,670 0 0 0 0 28,600 249,455 449,958 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,257,111 1,094,079 2,300,000 24,238,236 5,979,871 13,419,653 6,698,622 1,026,569 25,369,103 794,845 1,500,000 188,140 18,651,041 4,732,824 47,852,180 151,779 3,034,412 43,617 93,501,388 1,206,347 15,707,741 7,808,000 778,796 4,648,180 270,000 94,349 6,756,599 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 66,631 0 0 0 879 0 0 0 0 15,017 0 4,210 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 14,360 0 278,040 2,640 391,375 23,102 0 380,021 0 0 0 162,763 0 0 0 0 0 7,089,551 76,644 3,500,000 0 0 188,352 0 0 9,456 0 284,672 0 384,656 394,119 4,133,887 71,483 297,572 57,202 0 0 0 67,673 0 0 0 0 0 497,573 1,945 2,085 0 0 449,745 0 0 54,935 1,732,714 170,166 0 3,520,010 1,724,248 3,294,866 1,168,707 64,941 23,158,366 708,726 1,500,000 141,707 17,321,506 19,642 47,852,180 40,516 3,000,677 0 79,157,004 278,881 11,943,937 7,808,000 624,888 364,963 270,000 7,873 3,886,727 1,524,397 624,881 2,300,000 20,055,530 3,858,864 5,599,525 5,435,330 664,056 1,665,344 86,119 0 46,433 1,080,550 4,713,182 0 111,263 33,735 0 6,507,805 394,709 261,719 0 153,908 3,645,120 0 86,476 2,805,481 Recurrent Total 1,075,178 162,763 0 10,666,195 188,352 11,540,456 5,338,919 67,673 0 501,603 449,745 83,528 1,075,178 162,763 0 10,666,195 188,352 11,540,456 66,631 879 0 19,227 0 14,550 41,539 17,670 0 728,013 0 229 81,326,899 71,424,185 3,186,191 118,267,093 5,696,976 19,632,075 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing 4.8 4.9 5.1 5.2 5.5 5.6 6.1 R Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. Waste management Waste water management R Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. Housing development 312 325 329 501 307 308 357 305 501 305 313 365 501 313 357 329 501 313 329 331 332 347 305 347 Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Finance Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Population and environment Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Finance Ministry of Urban Development ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES 05 06 653,469 168,310 471,343 18,487 23,010 2,465,234 7,130,927 2,978,074 9,735,051 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 229 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 56 0 0 0 0 0 0 23,701 1,134,865 91,561 11,531,000 705,888 648,364 319,522 278,585 300,000 230,000 399,345 16,383 3,541,272 447,401 888,092 28,553 2,826,362 15,646 1,454,395 2,914,959 325,115 2,051,501 693,006 25,730,453 0 14,550 0 0 0 648,364 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 15,590 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 11,531,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5,967 0 444,432 0 0 0 0 0 0 92,734 48,051 0 4,752,994 0 28,593 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10,416 0 2,969 0 0 0 0 0 0 232,381 11,589 0 261,201 0 456,735 77,855 0 94,294 0 277,647 110,275 300,000 0 158,002 0 3,541,272 0 869,605 5,543 2,826,362 0 1,193,273 1,695,336 0 1,007,372 0 14,278,337 23,701 634,758 13,706 0 611,594 0 41,875 168,310 0 230,000 241,343 0 0 0 18,487 23,010 0 0 261,122 1,219,623 0 984,489 693,006 6,437,921 Recurrent Total 0 0 5,967 444,432 0 140,785 4,752,994 0 0 10,416 2,969 0 243,970 261,201 0 0 5,967 444,432 0 140,785 4,752,994 648,364 0 0 0 0 15,590 0 0 0 0 0 0 56 0 1,673,774 578,585 4,187,000 1,335,493 2,854,915 6,761,616 26,910,459 11,296,765 45,871,542 257,355 604,206 591,184 6,531,727 15,590 0 56 320,000 15,139,024 63,062,526 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing 6.2 6.3 6.6 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 7.6 Community development Water supply Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services Hospital services Public health services R Health Health n.e.c. 501 329 340 347 365 313 347 365 501 365 370 306 370 314 345 370 601 365 370 370 350 MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Supply Ministry of Health Ministry of Home Ministry of Defence Ministry of Health MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Health Ministry of Education HEALTH 07 678,053 1,781,545 144,526 260,245 5,480,924 10,134,841 8,478,934 2,112,578 988,712 27,456,234 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 320,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 487,000 309,830 110,320 158,150 4,756,076 21,721,681 694,055 1,368,629 2,423,200 4,610,126 644,491 174,775 5,745,535 742,497 687,922 8,326,882 6,600,000 469,976 12,596,274 4,112,800 988,712 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 59,420 0 0 0 608,830 0 0 0 0 87,851 515 227,167 0 0 1,463,200 0 0 0 0 117,977 0 35,089 0 0 0 103,397 0 0 0 0 70,299 242,235 30,471 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 433,510 687,922 4,443,500 0 0 58,989 1,258,910 0 487,000 60,316 1,000 0 4,194,107 20,169,913 640,845 934,424 640,000 4,465,600 384,246 10,000 429,386 47,230 0 397,812 0 7,500 4,520,827 29,085 0 0 249,514 109,320 0 319,219 1,294,130 53,210 434,205 0 144,526 260,245 164,775 5,316,149 143,780 0 3,391,061 6,600,000 462,476 8,016,458 2,112,578 988,712 Recurrent Total 88,366 1,690,367 0 0 0 153,066 0 103,397 0 312,534 30,471 0 0 0 5,564,932 58,989 1,258,910 0 88,366 1,690,367 0 0 0 153,066 0 103,397 0 0 0 0 0 0 59,420 0 608,830 0 0 320,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5,334,376 26,207,565 4,610,126 644,491 5,920,310 16,357,301 13,066,250 4,112,800 988,712 5,826,086 6,882,831 256,463 668,250 0 41,089,864 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing 8.1 8.2 8.3 8.5 9.1 9.2 9.5 9.6 9.8 10.4 10.7 10.8 10.9 Recreational and sporting services Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services R Recreation, culture and religion Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R Social protection Social protection n.e.c. 343 325 365 358 325 350 350 350 350 350 370 301 365 352 371 314 340 Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Health Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION EDUCATION SOCIAL PROTECTION 08 09 10 2,239,610 1,573,988 122,830 93,457 4,996,666 4,475,269 23,255,985 15,973,125 1,484,457 240,673 36,164,307 331,753 1,815,372 4,029,885 50,185,502 38,552,105 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,242,436 3,252,890 48,765 328,219 99,706 5,612,478 4,475,269 26,711,414 26,707,936 1,628,607 355,117 56,748 36,168,935 309,545 31,745 219,169 2,118,110 0 9,700 0 0 0 0 0 0 22,224 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12,253 953 0 1,499 0 0 9,637 0 0 0 4,075 0 0 171,534 0 0 926,318 36,512 165,847 0 614,313 0 3,193,292 10,573,837 138,570 114,444 0 29,206 0 0 47,635 98,601 2,826 742,884 0 38,589 6,249 0 0 262,137 129,113 5,580 0 728 27,367 3,447 6,090 0 204,137 2,239,610 1,573,988 0 122,830 93,457 4,996,666 4,475,269 23,255,985 15,973,125 1,484,457 240,673 56,020 36,108,287 306,098 25,655 0 1,815,372 Recurrent Total 0 12,253 953 0 1,499 0 0 9,637 0 0 4,075 0 171,534 0 962,830 165,847 0 614,313 0 3,193,292 10,573,837 138,570 114,444 29,206 0 146,236 0 12,253 953 0 1,499 0 0 9,637 0 0 4,075 0 171,534 0 9,700 0 0 0 0 0 22,224 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,242,436 3,301,655 328,219 99,706 5,612,478 4,475,269 26,711,414 26,707,936 1,628,607 355,117 36,225,683 341,290 2,337,279 790,548 396,830 241,769 1,128,677 14,520,012 289,886 13,206 11,136 175,609 9,700 22,224 0 0 0 0 5,972,016 65,135,704 39,259,369 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing 718,598,881 1st Priority 2nd Priority Sector/Ministry Grand Total Recurrent Total 425,742,635 36,175,357 48,213,072 48,757,216 1,507,694 1,278,994,855 3rd Priority Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing 1,144,341,516 Priority Total 84,388,429 50,264,910 01.1 01.2 Executive and legislative organs, financial and fiscal a Foreign economic aid 101 102 202 206 208 218 220 222 224 226 228 230 232 234 250 301 305 306 313 326 327 332 347 352 356 365 501 503 504 601 602 President Deputy President Legislature Parliament Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Council of Justice National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission National Women Commission National Dalit Commission National Inclusion Commission Indigenous Nationalities Commission Madhesi Commission Tharu Commission Muslim Commission Chief of State Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Supply Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICE 01 01-Increase production 02 Infrastructure development Sector /Ministry 03 -Human development 04 Good governamce 05 -Crosscutting Total 724541 3427 1177219 2100000 1500000 1000 7180000 1000000 2695 724541 2695 791609 1000000 7181000 1500000 2100000 837354 11222687 7314703 235470813 2600000 306594 0 4255863 158404 43465 1743677 1172708 620198 1736 35516 35516 35516 35516 35516 35516 35516 35516 80416 2409863 7247326 80555 120000 6132993 154867 64493 355372 332752 81167 227668 3370000 33020342 4087598 54233000 66308409 31662 5370 50080 10000 10000 10000 10000 10000 10000 10000 10000 35000 137990 833509 6481 34170 2744529 20720 15926 20177 2322 28609 29039819 3512743 4893000 126742 38095 1693597 722825 384230 1736 25516 25516 25516 25516 25516 25516 25516 25516 45416 2271873 5488453 74074 85830 3388464 134147 48567 335195 330430 81167 188280 3980523 574855 54233000 49625409 139885 17769 129161 9779 10000 3967164 0 182331137 795036 6321428 499148376 124057036 41492107 166798305 63100302 0 0 0 309998 218199 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 68967 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3370000 0 0 0 0 07-General Administration 48902 800 Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Annex 12 (Rs. in '000) Function-wise Strategic Allocation (Including Financing) ,Fiscal Year -2017/018 01.3 01.4 01.5 01.6 01.7 01.8 General services Basic research R General public services General public services n.e.c. Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of go 357 210 301 305 314 325 326 329 347 356 365 391 602 357 305 212 214 314 337 365 501 305 501 502 365 701 801 Ministry of Irrigation Public Service Commission Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development National Planning Commission Secretariat MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Ministry of Home Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development State Local Level DEFENCE 02 01-Increase production 02 Infrastructure development Sector /Ministry 03 -Human development 04 Good governamce 05 -Crosscutting Total 447046 2205 500000 272722 1500000 7143500 225054591 3703 130000 17687 10205000 791609 11168 31882 3427 447046 2205 11168 31882 17687 10205000 3703 130000 272722 233698091 500000 2285 85290 3827174 0 8889 113206 0 0 11297 795036 683732 246526 1227753 12398760 605903 173004 40402 199589 1020471 2127638 1305360 3000000 34087 9082 709113 204674 84819 21464 10300000 130000 9300 1000000 46292435 2000000 7143500 225054591 14470 365348 5816 10981 41052 1016882 52145 3825 39821 10000 20047855 573072 232056 12033412 141873 162023 706697 1044351 769445 576449 200849 44998 11464 26244580 43080 247198 9589 64425 462882 3000000 8889 18206 95000 1239613 0 193 114458 1000000 0 23029138 34087 9082 11450070 47301735 234198091 83284 44955920 15662929 833760 26244580 1506694 53646 20047855 39423795 5349969 0 67580 0 959165 0 0 0 0 190000 0 1980 20888 0 0 193 114458 0 0 0 0 0 0 1000000 0 0 0 0 07-General Administration 39602 9300 800 39602 9300 800 Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing 02.1 02.2 02.5 03.1 03.2 03.3 03.4 03.6 04.1 04.2 Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services Fire-protection services Law courts Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting 307 345 314 347 314 314 204 216 218 311 371 314 301 314 349 301 306 330 365 371 305 312 Ministry of Industry Ministry of Defence Ministry of Home Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Home Ministry of Home Courts Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Home Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Supply Ministry of Commerce Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Finance Ministry of Agriculture Development PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY ECONOMIC AFFAIRS 03 04 01-Increase production 02 Infrastructure development Sector /Ministry 03 -Human development 04 Good governamce 05 -Crosscutting Total 180263 28647280 31951124 9086 799212 41477 19494 29562 611417 85290 570048 71580708 154802 2285 31602 74354232 1412 64439 1046190 3698910 180263 2300000 20008627 1046190 24717645 2285 31602 74420083 85290 570048 71735510 19494 640979 1185447 9086 840689 1021 39862991 31602 85914174 570048 250528142 19494 1826426 9086 2781710 0 11297 0 0 0 770421 0 590873 1430396 707688 1361294 2456184 375568 44398196 94581 87575 35602929 14044 5221665 941255 73731 217953 16347 1784257 872778 4151434 1732557 146036158 645231 1784749 3257111 1094079 2300000 24238236 185603 5164366 5176786 448 222186 879 9087 6788 4463 550156 28100 849889 12810 10710 46500 47800 143049 99140 189965 39233830 30397563 13596 3530459 641836 64644 211165 11884 1234101 243028 3301545 364103 90508 598731 509084 298136 431559 11297 721249 49172 590873 1430396 0 83284 0 0 0 997139 0 764771 778700 969803 44773764 94581 87575 35602929 14044 6470951 1784257 6756769 152817328 81326899 1761910 2102003 50628950 454603106 39423795 30397563 13596 4459988 1234101 3908676 1496459 12691655 5349969 5176786 448 243403 550156 890799 248059 1108064 40013924 22357219 6861592 3481220 0 0 83284 0 0 0 747771 249368 0 0 0 0 0 0 764771 0 0 0 778700 0 0 0 07-General Administration 1838248 9460048 1853265 9488648 Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing 04.3 04.4 04.5 04.6 04.7 04.8 Fuel and energy Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport Communication Other industries R Economic affairs 327 329 336 352 357 365 501 307 308 331 501 307 337 332 337 347 365 501 332 358 501 306 307 312 325 329 501 307 Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Population and environment MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Information and Communications MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Supply Ministry of Industry Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry 01-Increase production 02 Infrastructure development Sector /Ministry 03 -Human development 04 Good governamce 05 -Crosscutting Total 28353 2441759 653469 1021 1940000 1185447 798 17214440 19642 43708026 3000677 85914892 526602 15436241 7808000 552314 4311000 18080 249931 4713182 33735 5346922 6155 216927 107993 152802 1523224 669420 1495 58869 16557001 708726 1500000 140909 2204154 3643959 440338 77855 7220000 94294 4113790 678425 658691 332390 469238 86119 28353 2129123 23701 275229 13706 611594 2345063 11382152 371941 4981193 33735 5570004 107993 152802 648364 60942906 3000677 109685735 552314 4311000 1940000 0 0 0 250000 0 0 5979871 13419653 6698622 1026569 25369103 794845 1500000 188140 18651041 4732824 47852180 151779 3034412 43617 93501388 1206347 15707741 7808000 778796 4648180 270000 94349 6756599 23701 1134865 91561 11531000 705888 203664 539417 219490 46353 287499 40516 581118 278881 7696 72574 553315 7873 252224 16626 139193 7548623 2954987 589161 1028132 899171 111263 1658456 394709 46877 45915 3844865 86476 731293 249870 707688 250000 0 0 0 270000 0 0 71424185 3186191 118267093 5696976 19632075 1673774 899171 111263 2100042 3890780 1067639 287499 40516 867695 625889 276723 0 0 969803 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 270000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 07-General Administration 1506364 40077 291807 15017 2477404 6072 6976572 28600 15017 28600 Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing 04.9 05.1 05.2 05.5 05.6 06.1 06.2 06.3 Economic affairs n.e.c. Waste management Waste water management R Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. Housing development Community development Water supply 308 357 305 501 305 313 365 501 313 357 329 501 313 329 331 332 347 305 347 501 329 340 347 365 Ministry of Energy Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Finance Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Population and environment Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Finance Ministry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES 05 06 01-Increase production 02 Infrastructure development Sector /Ministry 03 -Human development 04 Good governamce 05 -Crosscutting Total 18487 23010 73008 269766 114505 269766 5967 3541272 444432 2826362 87851 172515 230000 10416 2969 70299 250792 300000 11510 84971 18274665 487000 897404 648364 13170 911118 693006 6522914 274938 277647 869605 5543 446272 60316 1200000 41875 18487 23010 73008 249514 20252 869605 5543 446272 1260316 924288 7215920 274938 303673 300000 96481 18761665 897404 1196284 240416 2969 321091 1384275 3547239 444432 2826362 260366 22475735 1321420 1260316 924288 7939057 96481 25320953 243385 1705366 6818033 22736101 68100 0 0 0 15590 0 0 29273 15590 29273 648364 319522 278585 300000 230000 399345 16383 3541272 447401 888092 28553 2826362 15646 1454395 2914959 325115 2051501 693006 25730453 487000 309830 110320 158150 4756076 26775 377434 21869 756666 100210 347974 27963 176208 68100 15590 83500 0 0 0 56 0 0 488585 578585 4187000 1335493 2854915 6761616 26910459 5334376 26207565 56 488585 15139024 63062526 100210 375937 176208 91051 26775 399303 756666 33125 375937 267259 399303 789791 0 0 83500 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 56 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 07-General Administration 241343 188114 871649 191248 84960 109320 15472 158002 747001 1317902 59355 970452 1000 1924703 241343 1335971 124792 3744 158002 3094710 1925703 201820 1577314 128536 3252712 2127523 Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing 06.6 07.1 07.2 07.3 07.4 07.5 07.6 08.1 08.2 08.3 08.5 Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services Hospital services Public health services R Health Health n.e.c. Recreational and sporting services Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services R Recreation, culture and religion 313 347 365 501 365 370 306 370 314 345 370 601 365 370 370 350 343 325 365 358 325 Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Supply Ministry of Health Ministry of Home Ministry of Defence Ministry of Health MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Health Ministry of Education Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation HEALTH RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION 07 08 01-Increase production 02 Infrastructure development Sector /Ministry 03 -Human development 04 Good governamce 05 -Crosscutting Total 2160258 2160258 19673550 378985 2423200 323530 10000 429386 418321 7500 4520827 132482 12253 1200533 183742 168470 164775 5316149 6701244 462476 6846561 3980318 988712 248905 36512 640845 555439 4465600 6249 53210 250463 144526 93457 328346 2160258 328346 144526 93457 4465600 6249 168470 5480924 6701244 7309037 3980318 988712 248905 36512 323530 439386 418321 4528327 132482 12253 328346 93457 6249 24628705 285417 5842046 12253 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 21721681 694055 1368629 2423200 4610126 644491 174775 5745535 742497 687922 8326882 6600000 469976 12596274 4112800 988712 2242436 3252890 48765 328219 99706 33125 60716 165207 14580 2826 414538 39542 91051 91775 577290 687922 1192737 6600000 1228886 1990705 349748 288677 29273 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4610126 644491 5920310 16357301 13066250 4112800 988712 2242436 3301655 328219 99706 0 0 41089864 5972016 91775 9057949 1228886 1990705 349748 288677 60716 179787 2826 414538 39542 10378610 2629130 240503 456906 488585 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 07-General Administration 3744 201820 Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing 09.1 09.2 09.5 09.6 09.8 10.4 10.7 10.8 10.9 Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R Social protection Social protection n.e.c. 350 350 350 350 350 370 301 365 352 371 314 340 Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Health Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare EDUCATION SOCIAL PROTECTION 09 10 01-Increase production 02 Infrastructure development Sector /Ministry 03 -Human development 04 Good governamce 05 -Crosscutting Total 35672872 1499 262137 5580 6090 171534 16698 614313 26449277 41059 1623027 25655 47635 407329 614313 26449277 41059 1623027 25655 454964 1499 262137 5580 6090 188232 28727676 480619 269216 194322 43610427 106127550 283921866 293387901 41262767 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 8129501 5612478 4475269 26711414 26707936 1628607 355117 56748 36168935 309545 31745 219169 2118110 138750 884 3447 16855 4996666 4475269 26528127 355117 36029576 306098 221133 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5612478 4475269 26711414 26707936 1628607 355117 36225683 341290 2337279 0 0 65135704 39259369 10757266 1278994855 4996666 4475269 26528127 355117 36029576 306098 221133 138750 884 3447 16855 36000062 36911924 138750 21186 355156165 80839522 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 79,28,32,99 3,90,04,94,16 3,34,65,06,68 18,88,67,67 4,35,99,56,87 07-General Administration 56020 107917 1285511 728 30558 170584 163937 1285511 31286 170584 1449448 201870 5057465 15071553 20,12,90,18 Capital and Financing Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Recurrent Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Capital and Financing Note: 1. Strategies are based on three years interim plan(2016/17-2018/19) Grand Total Strategy Total 1.1 Executive and legislative organs, financial and fiscal affairs, ex 101 102 202 206 208 218 220 222 224 226 228 230 232 234 250 301 305 306 313 326 327 332 347 352 356 365 501 503 504 601 602 President Deputy President Legislature Parliament Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Council of Justice National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission National Women Commission National Dalit Commission National Inclusion Commission Indigenous Nationalities Commission Madhesi Commission Tharu Commission Muslim Commission Chief of State Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Supply Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICE 01 1,755,651 244,671,503 Function-wise Gender Responsive Budget (Including Financing), Fiscal Year 2017/18 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 13 Description 31,662 5,370 50,080 309,998 218,199 0 10,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 35,000 137,990 833,509 6,481 0 2,744,529 0 15,926 0 0 0 0 3,370,000 29,039,819 3,512,743 0 12,073,000 158,404 43,465 1,743,677 1,172,708 620,198 1,736 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 80,416 2,409,863 7,247,326 80,555 120,000 6,132,993 154,867 64,493 355,372 332,752 81,167 227,668 3,370,000 33,020,342 4,087,598 54,233,000 66,308,409 126,742 38,095 1,693,597 862,710 401,999 1,736 25,516 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 45,416 584,208 5,920,847 74,074 0 3,388,464 0 48,567 0 0 0 0 0 3,980,523 574,855 43,113,000 50,635,409 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 0 0 71,662 0 34,170 0 20,720 0 20,177 2,322 0 29,609 0 0 0 0 2,100,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 0 0 388,617 0 85,830 0 134,147 0 335,195 330,430 81,167 188,280 0 0 0 11,120,000 1,500,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 25,516 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,687,665 32,691 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 9,779 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 10,000 14,316,762 2,338,660 111,515,758 52,394,306 182,331,137 13,825 20,662,705 3,170,139 153,639,581 76,990,623 499,148,376 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 Foreign economic aid General services Basic research R General public services General public services n.e.c. Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of government 357 210 301 305 314 325 326 329 347 356 365 391 602 357 305 212 214 314 337 365 501 305 501 502 365 701 Ministry of Irrigation Public Service Commission Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development National Planning Commission Secretariat MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Ministry of Home Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development State 0 311,912 0 0 10,405,849 0 232,198,091 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description 791,609 67,580 14,470 962,868 365,348 16,984 1,799 800 0 0 1,018,862 21,802 0 31,882 0 114,458 0 0 10,000 0 130,000 0 1,000,000 20,047,855 0 0 795,036 683,732 246,526 1,227,753 12,398,760 605,903 173,004 40,402 199,589 1,020,471 2,127,638 1,305,360 3,000,000 34,087 9,082 709,113 204,674 84,819 21,464 10,300,000 130,000 9,300 1,000,000 46,292,435 2,000,000 7,143,500 3,427 304,240 232,056 264,885 12,033,412 588,919 19,465 39,602 0 0 1,108,776 666,837 0 2,205 0 594,655 0 0 11,464 0 0 9,300 0 26,244,580 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 9,182 0 190,000 41,052 0 51,231 0 0 193 0 0 39,821 0 0 0 0 0 0 500,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 142,558 0 9,589 979,419 0 565,490 3,000,000 0 8,889 0 0 44,998 0 95,000 0 0 0 0 1,500,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,825 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 311,912 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 200,849 0 0 10,205,000 0 0 0 0 0 7,143,500 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 0 3,825 0 0 0 4,697,056 0 8,889 139,998 0 1,500,000 0 291,465 0 193 39,821 0 500,000 3,427 15,258,192 2,205 0 606,119 26,253,880 0 791,609 2,470,513 31,882 0 254,458 21,047,855 0 795,036 23,029,138 34,087 9,082 11,450,070 47,301,735 234,198,091 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 2.1 2.2 2.5 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.6 4.1 Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services Fire-protection services Law courts Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs 801 307 345 314 347 314 314 204 216 218 311 371 314 301 314 349 301 306 330 365 Local Level Ministry of Industry Ministry of Defence Ministry of Home Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Home Ministry of Home Courts Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Home Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Supply Ministry of Commerce Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development DEFENCE PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY ECONOMIC AFFAIRS 02 03 04 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 202,615 74,701,609 0 202,615 90,067,457 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description 0 185,603 434,162 83,284 0 788,612 448 969,957 250,247 9,087 5,164 0 109,301 28,100 790,562 0 10,710 46,500 0 0 225,054,591 375,568 44,398,196 94,581 87,575 35,602,929 14,044 5,221,665 941,255 73,731 217,953 16,347 1,784,257 872,778 4,151,434 1,732,557 146,036,158 645,231 1,784,749 3,257,111 0 189,965 891,475 11,297 0 3,373,975 13,596 4,251,708 691,008 64,644 178,726 0 1,209,856 243,028 2,956,479 0 90,508 598,731 0 0 0 0 4,730,204 0 85,290 4,397,260 0 0 0 0 1,624 4,463 440,855 0 59,327 12,810 0 0 1,093,990 933,502 0 0 38,342,355 0 2,285 27,043,082 0 0 0 0 32,439 11,884 24,245 0 345,066 783,963 0 0 690,759 1,494,835 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 570,048 0 764,771 71,580,708 0 0 799,212 225,054,591 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 31,602 0 171,013 74,354,232 0 0 29,562 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,334,819 72,405,744 38,342,355 0 2,285 27,043,082 0 44,323 24,245 1,129,029 2,765,762 4,730,204 0 85,290 4,397,260 0 6,087 440,855 72,137 2,186,194 1,081,440 11,297 0 3,373,975 13,596 5,186,086 1,209,856 3,199,507 700,809 619,765 83,284 0 788,612 448 1,234,455 109,301 818,662 57,210 44,773,764 94,581 87,575 35,602,929 14,044 6,470,951 1,784,257 6,756,769 152,817,328 0 1,334,819 82,069,945 38,344,640 28,240,679 36,749,886 4,815,494 4,916,339 140,104,528 1,092,737 12,983,020 19,541,049 703,049 2,951,478 86,070,241 44,955,920 50,628,950 454,603,106 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting Fuel and energy Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport Communication Other industries 371 305 312 327 329 336 352 357 365 501 307 308 331 501 307 337 332 337 347 365 501 332 358 501 306 307 312 Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Finance Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Population and environment MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Information and Communications MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Supply Ministry of Industry Ministry of Agriculture Development 8,387,271 4,731,262 0 46,877 0 2,200,438 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description 0 0 0 1,723,585 203,336 792,102 0 1,582,469 0 0 140,909 16,661,852 0 16,850,954 40,516 0 28,600 30,046,346 278,881 0 7,808,000 552,314 419,717 270,000 7,873 3,333,044 0 1,094,079 2,300,000 24,238,236 5,979,871 13,419,653 6,698,622 1,026,569 25,369,103 794,845 1,500,000 188,140 18,651,041 4,732,824 47,852,180 151,779 3,034,412 43,617 93,501,388 1,206,347 15,707,741 7,808,000 778,796 4,648,180 270,000 94,349 6,756,599 23,701 11,570 2,300,000 0 2,677,650 715,723 3,310,677 589,161 128,632 0 0 28,353 1,024,991 0 0 111,263 0 15,017 1,744,099 394,709 0 0 107,993 2,989,198 0 86,476 538,722 0 158,702 0 2,659,279 3,303 646,960 398,686 58,869 17,311,815 708,726 1,500,000 0 840,087 0 31,001,226 0 3,000,677 0 55,993,327 526,602 15,436,241 0 72,574 133,598 0 0 50,862 0 580,168 0 15,008,183 1,575,333 7,559,435 1,010,689 332,390 1,389,055 86,119 0 0 124,111 0 0 0 33,735 0 5,261,279 6,155 216,927 0 45,915 1,105,667 0 0 121,256 23,701 25,824 0 1,138,771 0 2,835,945 1,021 6,072 4,685,642 0 0 798 0 19,642 0 0 0 0 456,337 0 7,696 0 0 0 0 0 512,277 0 317,815 0 5,432,003 0 1,458,254 1,185,447 40,077 271,490 0 0 18,080 0 4,713,182 0 0 0 0 0 0 46,877 0 0 0 0 0 2,200,438 0 Recurrent Total 8,667,451 20,440 0 464,033 0 512,277 26,961,204 124,111 33,735 5,484,361 1,151,582 187,256 23,287,638 31,841,313 3,000,677 71,956,170 206,172 7,348,717 9,721,843 1,053,344 111,263 2,153,825 3,097,191 1,274,506 4,301,492 33,653,715 40,516 38,161,827 1,242,031 8,108,881 81,326,899 71,424,185 3,186,191 118,267,093 5,696,976 19,632,075 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 4.8 4.9 5.1 5.2 5.5 5.6 6.1 R Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. Waste management Waste water management R Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. Housing development 325 329 501 307 308 357 305 501 305 313 365 501 313 357 329 501 313 329 331 332 347 305 347 501 Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Finance Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Population and environment Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Finance Ministry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES 05 06 0 0 0 0 0 0 5,000 0 683,508 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description 456,964 0 4,311,000 94,294 0 0 110,275 300,000 0 158,002 5,967 80,000 0 0 5,543 0 0 0 412,203 92,734 48,051 0 5,319,145 0 1,134,865 91,561 11,531,000 705,888 648,364 319,522 278,585 300,000 230,000 399,345 16,383 3,541,272 447,401 888,092 28,553 2,826,362 15,646 1,454,395 2,914,959 325,115 2,051,501 693,006 25,730,453 487,000 649,308 0 0 611,594 648,364 0 168,310 0 230,000 241,343 10,416 0 0 0 23,010 0 0 0 423,290 232,381 11,589 693,006 5,385,771 0 0 77,855 7,220,000 0 0 277,647 0 0 0 0 0 3,461,272 444,432 869,605 0 2,826,362 56 1,193,273 1,283,133 0 1,007,372 0 13,712,186 487,000 28,593 13,706 0 0 0 41,875 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,969 18,487 0 0 15,590 261,122 796,333 0 984,489 0 1,308,351 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5,000 0 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 41,875 0 0 21,456 0 2,057,534 1,308,351 277,647 0 3,461,272 1,314,037 2,826,362 3,483,834 14,199,186 1,259,958 168,310 481,759 0 23,010 667,260 6,078,777 94,294 410,275 243,969 0 5,543 552,988 5,319,145 1,673,774 578,585 4,187,000 1,335,493 2,854,915 6,761,616 26,910,459 0 4,714,897 2,078,990 3,296,747 11,085,505 39,774,620 1,172,029 6,359,002 802,500 8,233,752 15,139,024 63,062,526 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 6.2 6.3 6.6 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 7.6 8.1 Community development Water supply Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services Hospital services Public health services R Health Health n.e.c. Recreational and sporting services 329 340 347 365 313 347 365 501 365 370 306 370 314 345 370 601 365 370 370 350 343 Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Supply Ministry of Health Ministry of Home Ministry of Defence Ministry of Health MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Health Ministry of Education Ministry of Youth and Sports HEALTH RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION 07 08 109,320 569,188 0 0 3,762,573 1,207,786 8,314,968 852,074 0 0 14,137,401 0 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description 0 0 0 897,404 1,697,203 0 0 320,000 0 0 0 0 47,230 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,597 309,830 110,320 158,150 4,756,076 21,721,681 694,055 1,368,629 2,423,200 4,610,126 644,491 174,775 5,745,535 742,497 687,922 8,326,882 6,600,000 469,976 12,596,274 4,112,800 988,712 2,242,436 0 0 0 274,938 5,287 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 143,780 0 0 6,600,000 0 0 0 988,712 334,502 60,316 0 87,851 3,297,218 14,920,404 640,845 0 2,103,200 4,465,600 384,246 10,000 282,530 117,977 0 415,074 0 0 347,976 131,252 0 1,229 249,514 0 70,299 286,516 1,184,331 53,210 0 0 144,526 260,245 164,775 1,553,576 433,510 687,922 6,686,195 0 0 222,955 3,128,244 0 1,905,108 0 1,000 0 0 3,779,473 0 934,424 0 0 0 0 146,856 0 0 17,827 0 7,500 4,172,851 1,230 0 0 0 109,320 0 0 134,983 0 434,205 0 0 0 0 3,762,573 0 0 1,207,786 0 462,476 7,852,492 852,074 0 0 Recurrent Total 1,000 4,713,897 0 0 146,856 17,827 4,180,351 1,230 0 0 606,329 1,237,541 144,526 260,245 1,718,351 7,807,627 222,955 3,128,244 0 1,905,108 3,445,385 17,664,449 4,465,600 384,246 292,530 533,051 347,976 131,252 0 1,229 274,938 5,287 0 0 0 6,743,780 0 0 988,712 334,502 897,404 2,017,203 0 0 0 47,230 0 0 0 1,597 5,334,376 26,207,565 4,610,126 644,491 5,920,310 16,357,301 13,066,250 4,112,800 988,712 2,242,436 4,346,264 0 13,137,422 2,070,955 1,689,055 2,182 7,732,492 3,097,307 47,230 801,572 41,089,864 5,972,016 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 8.2 8.3 8.5 9.1 9.2 9.5 9.6 9.8 10.4 10.7 10.8 10.9 Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services R Recreation, culture and religion Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R Social protection Social protection n.e.c. 325 365 358 325 350 350 350 350 350 370 301 365 352 371 314 340 Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Health Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare EDUCATION SOCIAL PROTECTION 09 10 0 0 0 5,610,979 0 26,400,812 582,597 1,611,396 0 18,545 0 1,487,620 34,205,784 1,506,165 385,474,433 Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description Total 742,884 12,253 38,589 6,249 0 0 0 0 0 0 728 0 3,447 0 0 0 3,252,890 48,765 328,219 99,706 5,612,478 4,475,269 26,711,414 26,707,936 1,628,607 355,117 56,748 36,168,935 309,545 31,745 219,169 2,118,110 2,510,006 36,512 122,830 93,457 0 0 0 138,180 11,631 0 56,020 0 306,098 0 0 0 0 0 953 0 0 0 0 134,729 0 0 0 27,812 0 6,090 0 18,948 0 0 165,847 0 0 4,475,269 48,465 25,848,409 0 355,117 0 36,118,948 0 25,655 0 473,988 0 0 0 0 1,499 0 262,137 4,021 5,580 0 0 3,630 0 0 171,534 185,189 0 0 0 0 5,610,979 0 26,400,812 582,597 1,611,396 0 0 18,545 0 0 47,635 1,439,985 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 1,499 0 262,137 4,021 5,580 0 3,630 0 356,723 0 165,847 0 0 4,475,269 48,465 25,848,409 0 355,117 36,118,948 25,655 473,988 0 953 0 0 0 0 134,729 0 0 27,812 6,090 18,948 2,546,518 122,830 93,457 0 0 0 138,180 11,631 0 56,020 306,098 0 755,137 38,589 6,249 0 0 0 0 0 0 728 3,447 0 3,301,655 328,219 99,706 5,612,478 4,475,269 26,711,414 26,707,936 1,628,607 355,117 36,225,683 341,290 2,337,279 273,237 360,353 30,372,143 36,973,708 134,729 52,850 149,811 362,118 0 4,175 65,135,704 39,259,369 93,113,340 211,927,875 205,745,441 206,129,146 176,604,620 1,278,994,855 Neutral Capital and Financing 478,587,773 Grant Total 417,673,316 382,733,766 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Directly Supportive Indirectly Supportive Description Recurrent Total Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Note : Gender Responsive Budget Classifications Basis of classification for Gender Responsive Budget are as follows : a)50 percent or more budget directly beneficial for women Direct Responsive b) 20 or more and less then 50 percent of budget directly beneficial for women Indirect Responsive c) Less than 20 Percent of budget beneficial for women Neutral Following indicators are used to assess the percentage above. Women Participation in formulation and implementation of Program Percentage Women Capacity Development Women's share in benefit Support in employment and income generating to women Quality reform in time consumption & minimization in of work load to women Indicators 20 20 30 20 10 100 Total S.N. 1 2 3 4 5 Gender Responsive Amount Code Percent 1 2 3 Directly Indirectly Neutral 478587773 417673316 382733766 37.42 32.66 29.92 1.1 1.2 Executive and legislative organs, financial and fiscal affairs, external Foreign economic aid 101 102 202 206 208 218 220 222 224 226 228 230 232 234 250 301 305 306 313 326 327 332 347 352 356 365 501 503 504 601 602 President Deputy President Legislature Parliament Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Council of Justice National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission National Women Commission National Dalit Commission National Inclusion Commission Indigenous Nationalities Commission Madhesi Commission Tharu Commission Muslim Commission Chief of State Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Supply Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICE 01 5,952,586 0 253,494,365 Function-wise Pro-poor budget (Including Financing), Fiscal Year 2017/18 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 14 Description 158,404 43,465 1,743,677 1,172,708 620,198 1,736 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 80,416 2,409,863 7,247,326 80,555 120,000 6,132,993 154,867 64,493 355,372 332,752 81,167 227,668 3,370,000 33,020,342 4,087,598 54,233,000 66,308,409 31,662 5,370 50,080 309,998 218,199 0 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 35,000 137,990 902,476 6,481 34,170 2,744,529 20,720 15,926 20,177 0 0 0 0 29,039,819 3,512,743 0 3,400,000 126,742 38,095 1,693,597 862,710 401,999 1,736 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 45,416 584,208 5,855,723 74,074 85,830 3,388,464 134,147 48,567 335,195 0 81,167 0 0 3,980,523 574,855 53,733,000 49,385,409 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,695 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,322 0 29,609 3,370,000 0 0 0 10,773,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,687,665 486,432 0 0 0 0 0 0 330,430 0 198,059 0 0 0 500,000 2,750,000 Total 40,565,340 791,609 121,635,585 3,427 40,565,340 791,609 182,331,137 795,036 15,826,431 165,479,424 64,348,156 499,148,376 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 General services Basic research R General public services General public services n.e.c. Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of government 357 210 301 305 314 325 326 329 347 356 365 391 602 357 305 212 214 314 337 365 501 305 501 502 365 701 801 Ministry of Irrigation Public Service Commission Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development National Planning Commission Secretariat MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Ministry of Home Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development State Local Level DEFENCE 02 3,543,688 0 0 10,300,000 0 233,698,091 0 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description 795,036 683,732 246,526 1,227,753 12,398,760 605,903 173,004 40,402 199,589 1,020,471 2,127,638 1,305,360 3,000,000 34,087 9,082 709,113 204,674 84,819 21,464 10,300,000 130,000 9,300 1,000,000 46,292,435 2,000,000 7,143,500 225,054,591 791,609 67,580 14,470 959,165 365,348 5,816 10,981 800 190,000 41,052 1,018,862 69,099 0 31,882 193 114,458 3,825 39,821 10,000 0 0 0 0 20,047,855 0 0 0 3,427 616,152 232,056 247,198 12,033,412 141,873 162,023 39,602 9,589 979,419 1,108,776 1,153,372 0 2,205 8,889 594,655 200,849 44,998 11,464 0 0 9,300 0 26,244,580 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,703 0 11,168 0 0 0 0 0 3,934 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 130,000 0 1,000,000 0 500,000 0 0 0 0 0 17,687 0 447,046 0 0 0 0 0 78,955 3,000,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 10,300,000 0 0 0 0 1,500,000 7,143,500 225,054,591 Total 2,743,173 31,882 193 168,104 20,047,855 0 16,723,472 2,205 8,889 851,966 26,253,880 0 2,743,173 31,882 193 168,104 20,047,855 0 23,029,138 34,087 9,082 11,450,070 47,301,735 234,198,091 0 39,437,377 5,518,543 44,955,920 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 2.1 2.2 2.5 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.6 4.1 4.2 Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services Fire-protection services Law courts Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting 307 345 314 347 314 314 204 216 218 311 371 314 301 314 349 301 306 330 365 371 305 312 Ministry of Industry Ministry of Defence Ministry of Home Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Home Ministry of Home Courts Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Home Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Supply Ministry of Commerce Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Finance Ministry of Agriculture Development PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY ECONOMIC AFFAIRS 03 04 0 0 0 0 13,596 36,097 0 2,477,991 77,306,101 37,858,590 2,527,684 129,907,101 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description 375,568 44,398,196 94,581 87,575 35,602,929 14,044 5,221,665 941,255 73,731 217,953 16,347 1,784,257 872,778 4,151,434 1,732,557 146,036,158 645,231 1,784,749 3,257,111 1,094,079 2,300,000 24,238,236 185,603 5,164,366 83,284 85,290 5,185,872 0 969,957 250,247 9,087 5,359 4,463 550,156 598,148 165,176 12,810 0 0 48,000 0 143,049 0 104,450 189,965 39,233,830 11,297 2,285 30,417,057 0 4,251,708 691,008 64,644 175,068 11,884 1,234,101 274,630 1,414,427 364,103 0 0 563,943 0 298,136 0 124,384 0 0 0 0 0 448 0 0 0 1,429 0 0 0 684,713 764,771 71,591,418 46,500 1,045,990 1,732,714 41,477 0 3,693,600 0 0 0 0 0 13,596 0 0 0 36,097 0 0 0 1,887,118 590,873 74,444,740 598,731 126,816 1,524,397 611,417 2,300,000 20,315,802 Total 5,349,969 83,284 85,290 5,185,872 0 1,239,113 550,156 776,134 191,049 1,947,629 39,423,795 11,297 2,285 30,417,057 0 5,194,312 1,234,101 2,053,160 862,079 7,211,728 5,349,969 83,284 85,290 5,185,872 0 1,239,113 550,156 776,134 191,049 1,947,629 44,773,764 94,581 87,575 35,602,929 14,044 6,470,951 1,784,257 6,756,769 152,817,328 81,326,899 1,451,361 245,676,477 38,898,630 16,451,291 7,751,275 62,568,237 50,628,950 454,603,106 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.8 Fuel and energy Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport Communication Other industries R Economic affairs 327 329 336 352 357 365 501 307 308 331 501 307 337 332 337 347 365 501 332 358 501 306 307 312 325 329 501 307 Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Population and environment MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Information and Communications MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Supply Ministry of Industry Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry 4,887,461 33,735 5,919,152 0 2,600,229 1,301,833 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description 5,979,871 13,419,653 6,698,622 1,026,569 25,369,103 794,845 1,500,000 188,140 18,651,041 4,732,824 47,852,180 151,779 3,034,412 43,617 93,501,388 1,206,347 15,707,741 7,808,000 778,796 4,648,180 270,000 94,349 6,756,599 23,701 1,134,865 91,561 11,531,000 705,888 402,397 736,014 604,809 0 99,959 0 0 140,909 15,362,316 0 9,992,004 40,516 0 28,600 25,318,100 355,525 1,191,140 6,500,000 624,888 553,315 0 7,873 187,472 0 16,626 0 0 0 245,613 2,136,557 3,250,109 589,161 865,904 0 0 28,353 992,903 0 0 111,263 0 15,017 1,330,691 396,654 23,549 0 153,908 4,094,865 0 86,476 572,823 0 402,672 0 0 0 1,324,491 2,950,227 587,000 64,941 23,479,967 708,726 1,500,000 798 2,139,623 19,642 37,860,176 0 3,000,677 0 61,177,910 449,958 14,252,797 1,308,000 0 0 270,000 0 3,708,711 0 440,338 77,855 11,531,000 94,294 4,007,370 7,596,855 2,256,704 372,467 923,273 86,119 0 18,080 156,199 4,713,182 0 0 33,735 0 5,674,687 4,210 240,255 0 0 0 0 0 2,287,593 23,701 275,229 13,706 0 611,594 Total 25,495,229 40,516 33,393,365 1,178,203 211,971 0 1,021,256 111,263 1,765,911 4,248,773 1,061,971 0 25,495,229 40,516 33,393,365 1,178,203 211,971 0 71,424,185 3,186,191 118,267,093 5,696,976 19,632,075 1,673,774 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 4.9 5.1 5.2 5.5 5.6 6.1 6.2 6.3 Economic affairs n.e.c. Waste management Waste water management R Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. Housing development Community development Water supply 308 357 305 501 305 313 365 501 313 357 329 501 313 329 331 332 347 305 347 501 329 340 347 365 Ministry of Energy Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Finance Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Population and environment Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Finance Ministry of Urban Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES 05 06 0 0 18,487 23,010 763,443 89,239 606,329 809,698 804,940 1,649,792 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description 648,364 319,522 278,585 300,000 230,000 399,345 16,383 3,541,272 447,401 888,092 28,553 2,826,362 15,646 1,454,395 2,914,959 325,115 2,051,501 693,006 25,730,453 487,000 309,830 110,320 158,150 4,756,076 0 0 110,275 0 0 158,002 5,967 80,000 444,432 0 0 0 56 0 1,694,636 92,734 1,055,423 0 16,722,727 487,000 0 1,000 0 897,404 0 0 168,310 0 230,000 241,343 10,416 0 2,969 0 0 0 15,590 0 717,302 232,381 996,078 693,006 6,609,883 0 0 109,320 0 274,938 0 277,647 0 300,000 0 0 0 3,461,272 0 869,605 5,543 2,826,362 0 1,193,273 700 0 0 0 2,308,604 0 60,316 0 87,851 3,297,218 648,364 41,875 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 18,487 23,010 0 0 261,122 502,321 0 0 0 89,239 0 249,514 0 70,299 286,516 Total 110,275 243,969 444,432 0 2,842,849 17,209,727 898,404 8,722,545 168,310 481,759 2,969 0 1,961,351 7,302,889 384,258 1,002,318 110,275 243,969 444,432 0 2,842,849 17,209,727 898,404 8,722,545 578,585 4,187,000 1,335,493 2,854,915 6,761,616 26,910,459 5,334,376 26,207,565 8,356,755 25,892,593 2,446,079 8,689,465 3,531,250 26,830,676 15,139,024 63,062,526 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 6.6 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 7.6 8.1 8.2 8.3 8.5 Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services Hospital services Public health services R Health Health n.e.c. Recreational and sporting services Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services R Recreation, culture and religion 313 347 365 501 365 370 306 370 314 345 370 601 365 370 370 350 343 325 365 358 325 Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Supply Ministry of Health Ministry of Home Ministry of Defence Ministry of Health MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Health Ministry of Education Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation HEALTH RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION 07 08 144,526 260,245 5,480,924 7,891,981 8,479,853 3,980,318 988,712 203,162 1,167,487 0 0 27,082,033 1,370,649 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description 21,721,681 694,055 1,368,629 2,423,200 4,610,126 644,491 174,775 5,745,535 742,497 687,922 8,326,882 6,600,000 469,976 12,596,274 4,112,800 988,712 2,242,436 3,252,890 48,765 328,219 99,706 8,081,700 640,845 0 0 0 0 0 0 165,207 0 0 0 0 342,600 0 0 2,826 742,884 12,253 39,542 6,249 949,108 53,210 0 0 0 0 0 0 577,290 687,922 2,000 6,600,000 0 58,070 0 0 2,036,448 1,342,519 36,512 288,677 93,457 12,315,380 0 934,424 2,423,200 4,465,600 384,246 10,000 429,386 0 0 432,901 0 7,500 4,178,227 132,482 0 0 0 0 0 0 375,493 0 434,205 0 144,526 260,245 164,775 5,316,149 0 0 7,891,981 0 462,476 8,017,377 3,980,318 988,712 203,162 1,167,487 0 0 0 Total 0 0 0 165,207 342,600 0 0 2,826 755,137 39,542 6,249 0 0 0 7,867,212 58,070 0 0 2,036,448 1,379,031 288,677 93,457 0 0 0 165,207 342,600 0 0 2,826 755,137 39,542 6,249 4,610,126 644,491 5,920,310 16,357,301 13,066,250 4,112,800 988,712 2,242,436 3,301,655 328,219 99,706 5,574,742 0 7,925,282 3,797,613 507,807 803,754 41,089,864 5,972,016 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 9.1 9.2 9.5 9.6 9.8 10.4 10.7 10.8 10.9 Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R Social protection Social protection n.e.c. 350 350 350 350 350 370 301 365 352 371 314 340 Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Health Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare EDUCATION SOCIAL PROTECTION 09 10 5,610,979 4,475,269 26,449,277 26,569,186 1,611,396 355,117 36,137,493 25,655 1,941,608 64,716,107 38,459,873 520,012,544 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description Total 5,612,478 4,475,269 26,711,414 26,707,936 1,628,607 355,117 56,748 36,168,935 309,545 31,745 219,169 2,118,110 0 0 0 0 0 0 728 0 3,447 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 11,631 0 56,020 0 306,098 0 0 20,000 1,499 0 262,137 138,750 5,580 0 0 31,442 0 6,090 171,534 204,137 5,610,979 4,475,269 26,449,277 26,569,186 1,611,396 355,117 0 36,137,493 0 25,655 47,635 1,893,973 Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 728 3,447 0 0 0 0 0 11,631 0 56,020 306,098 20,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 728 3,447 0 5,612,478 4,475,269 26,711,414 26,707,936 1,628,607 355,117 36,225,683 341,290 2,337,279 407,966 413,203 11,631 382,118 0 4,175 65,135,704 39,259,369 303,599,528 283,518,910 171,863,873 1,278,994,855 823,612,072 Grant Total 455,382,783 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Pro-Poor Amount Code Percent 1 2 ProPoor Non ProPoor 823612072 455382783 64.4 35.6 Pro-poor Budget Neutral Budget Description Total Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Note : Basis of classification for Pro-poor budget are as follows : Description Classification Budget Directly helps in poverty reduction Pro-poor Budget Budget Indirectly helps in poverty reduction Neutral Budget Pro Poor Indicators: Investment in rural sector Income generation program in rural area. Capacity enhancement program in rural area. Budget allocated for social mobilization. Expenditure focusing on poverty reduction. Grant for local bodies. Social security Programs. Investment in social sector specially for education,health etc. Multilateral Agencies Bilateral-Donors (Budget) 170,079,035 105,008,121 Asian Development Bank International Development Association (World Bank) Nordic Development Fund Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC ) Fund Saudi Development Fund United Nations International Fund for Agricultural Development SSDP China ADB General JFPR ADBPool Fund IDA General WB Trust Fund World Bank NDF OFID SAARC Fund UN UNDP UNFPA UNICEF UNHABITAT WHO WFP IFAD SSDP 1,006,958 47,148 56,500 48,575 9,000 505,845 4,339,166 755,773 561,899 7,404,746 1,169,145 58,300 1,750 19,150 66,515 1,410,096 3,649,311 5,373,221 13,500 748,156 25,035 160,825 91,950 450,000 12,130 609,524 8,200 170,081 51,000 195,500 369,522 10,444,859 24,975,000 27,754,371 28,981,941 1,448,250 5,700 988,019 7,644,507 26,270,463 4,595,020 6,451,000 1,131,384 75,189,038 755,773 575,399 66,752,011 1,194,180 6,726,625 91,950 2,579,634 48,575 5,700 450,000 22,880 1,330,019 8,200 170,081 487,037 2,398,115 11,293,818 10,719,345 755,773 575,399 8,200,050 1,194,180 275,625 91,950 48,575 450,000 22,880 1,330,019 8,200 170,081 487,037 1,410,096 3,649,311 64,469,693 58,551,961 6,451,000 2,579,634 5,700 988,019 7,644,507 76,520,210 74,672,816 91,950 2,579,634 48,575 2,473,917 2,398,115 11,293,818 6,263,500 64,469,693 65,002,961 2,579,634 5,700 988,019 7,644,507 5,133,500 12,050,517 9,669,855 91,950 48,575 2,468,217 1,410,096 3,649,311 1,130,000 26,270,463 11,046,020 1,131,384 5,133,500 27,754,371 28,981,941 1,448,250 5,700 988,019 7,644,507 10,444,859 24,975,000 565,022 5,386,721 934,016 91,950 1,300,935 1,100,000 5,656,838 8,632,191 87,415 1,410,096 3,649,311 1,006,958 103,648 48,575 514,845 30,000 140,690,514 69,544,515 29,388,521 35,463,606 38,447,867 54,408,075 66,822,788 15,136,440 35,419,859 565,022 12,500 7,713,622 9,509,072 19,435,851 20,922,545 1,674,026 5,019,489 Cash Reimb. Direct Kind Total Total Grant Loan Foreign Grant and Loan Summary (Rs. in '000) Annex 15 Reimb. Direct Direct Total Donor Agencies Fiscal Year 2017/18 Bilateral-Donors (Budget) 105,008,121 China Denmark Finland Germany India Japan Kuwait Development Fund Switzerland Saudi Development Fund United Kingdom United States of America European Union China General China Exim Bank DenmarkGeneral Finland General Finland Pool Fund Germany KFW India General India Exim Bank Japan General Japan JICA Japan – KR1 KFAED Switzerland General Switzerland SDC Switzerland HELVETAS Saudi Fund UK General USAID General 30,000 840 2,094,194 62,579 300,500 35,000 19,733,046 13,755 691,367 484,377 1,100,000 1,936,860 189,621 471,825 1,298,356 89,027 485,700 33,000 403,060 1,990,036 275,000 1,003,535 233,052 12,500 965,066 12,996,336 708,573 466,465 5,133,500 44,013,616 3,454,438 351,000 1,130,000 5,133,500 1,937,700 189,621 471,825 1,298,356 21,916,267 44,013,616 4,419,504 13,833,036 33,000 708,573 403,060 2,066,370 275,000 466,465 1,995,402 764,929 1,130,000 1,937,700 189,621 471,825 1,298,356 21,916,267 485,700 33,000 403,060 2,066,370 275,000 1,995,402 764,929 5,133,500 44,013,616 4,419,504 13,347,336 708,573 466,465 6,263,500 1,937,700 661,446 1,298,356 65,929,883 18,285,540 708,573 2,744,430 466,465 1,995,402 764,929 3,951,897 5,133,500 44,013,616 17,766,840 708,573 466,465 1,455,521 1,130,000 1,937,700 661,446 1,298,356 21,916,267 518,700 2,744,430 1,995,402 764,929 2,496,376 44,013,616 3,805,438 1,455,521 13,961,402 708,573 466,465 12,500 1,936,860 661,446 1,298,356 89,027 518,700 2,668,096 1,003,535 233,052 19,733,046 13,755 691,367 484,377 840 2,094,194 62,579 300,500 35,000 2,496,376 69,544,515 35,463,606 Cash Reimb. Direct Kind Total Total Grant Loan Reimb. Direct Direct Total Donor Agencies Bilateral-Donors (Budget) Basket Funds 105,008,121 11,115,901 European Union Pooled Funds Global Alliance against Vaccination and Immunization Save the Children Donor Pool Fund-Health One Heart World Wide Heifer Project International in Nepal EU General European Investment Bank GEFMATGeneral GEFMATSave The Children Gavi General Save the Children Donor Pool Fund-Health One Heart World Wide Heifer Project International in Nepal 2,496,376 198,468 15,974 201,096 335,224 3,824,288 1,175 35,129 403,900 7,600 41,817 558,703 199,214 1,492,213 700 2,850,400 1,455,521 950,000 2,496,376 1,455,521 757,171 216,363 1,693,309 35,829 8,363,812 7,600 41,817 2,496,376 757,171 216,363 1,693,309 35,829 4,563,412 7,600 41,817 1,455,521 3,800,400 3,951,897 973,534 1,693,309 35,829 8,363,812 7,600 41,817 1,455,521 3,800,400 2,496,376 973,534 1,693,309 35,829 4,563,412 7,600 41,817 950,000 2,850,400 757,917 1,492,213 700 1,175 35,129 403,900 7,600 41,817 3,824,288 214,442 201,096 335,224 69,544,515 3,800,400 35,463,606 7,315,501 950,000 2,850,400 2,250,830 489,621 3,824,288 750,762 286,203,057 214,035,429 72,167,628 Grant Total 93,805,942 84,809,628 35,419,859 2,828,352 17,712,315 44,182,684 7,444,277 Cash Reimb. Direct Kind Total Total Grant Loan Reimb. Direct Direct Total Donor Agencies 1.1 Executive and legislative organs, financial and fiscal affairs, ex 101 102 202 206 208 218 220 222 224 226 228 230 232 234 250 301 305 306 313 326 327 332 347 352 356 365 501 503 504 601 602 President Deputy President Legislature Parliament Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority Office of the Auditor General Council of Justice National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission National Women Commission National Dalit Commission National Inclusion Commission Indigenous Nationalities Commission Madhesi Commission Tharu Commission Muslim Commission Chief of State Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Supply Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing MOF External Debt Service (Multilateral) MOF External Debt Service (Bilateral) MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICE 01 85,830 88,035 Climate Budget , Fiscal Year 2017/18 Highly Relevant Relevant (Rs. in '000 ) Annex 16 Description 31,662 5,370 50,080 309,998 218,199 0 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 35,000 137,990 905,171 6,481 0 2,744,529 20,720 15,926 20,177 2,322 0 29,609 3,370,000 29,039,819 3,512,743 0 14,173,000 158,404 43,465 1,743,677 1,172,708 620,198 1,736 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 35,516 80,416 2,409,863 7,247,326 80,555 120,000 6,132,993 154,867 64,493 355,372 332,752 81,167 227,668 3,370,000 33,020,342 4,087,598 54,233,000 66,308,409 126,742 38,095 1,693,597 862,710 401,999 1,736 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 25,516 45,416 2,271,873 6,342,155 74,074 0 3,388,464 134,147 48,567 335,195 330,430 81,167 198,059 0 3,980,523 574,855 54,233,000 52,135,409 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 34,170 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 85,830 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 127,502,341 54,708,796 182,331,137 66,052 232,258,807 796,112 186,626,947 79,312,423 499,148,376 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 Foreign economic aid General services Basic research R General public services General public services n.e.c. Public debt transactions Transfers of a general character between levels of government 357 210 301 305 314 325 326 329 347 356 365 391 602 357 305 212 214 314 337 365 501 305 501 502 365 701 Ministry of Irrigation Public Service Commission Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of General Administration Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development National Planning Commission Secretariat MOF Miscellaneous Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance Election Commission National Human Rights Commission Ministry of Home Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing MOF Domestic Debt Service Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development State 0 0 2,205 0 0 0 0 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 0 67,580 14,470 959,165 365,348 16,984 10,981 0 190,000 41,052 1,018,862 73,033 0 0 193 114,458 3,825 39,821 10,000 0 130,000 0 1,000,000 20,047,855 500,000 0 795,036 683,732 246,526 1,227,753 12,398,760 605,903 173,004 40,402 199,589 1,020,471 2,127,638 1,305,360 3,000,000 34,087 9,082 709,113 204,674 84,819 21,464 10,300,000 130,000 9,300 1,000,000 46,292,435 2,000,000 7,143,500 0 616,152 232,056 247,198 12,033,412 588,919 162,023 0 9,589 979,419 1,108,776 1,232,327 3,000,000 0 8,889 594,655 200,849 44,998 11,464 10,300,000 0 9,300 0 26,244,580 1,500,000 0 791,609 0 0 3,703 0 0 0 800 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,427 0 0 17,687 0 0 0 39,602 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7,143,500 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 31,882 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,205 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 791,609 4,503 0 0 0 0 0 3,427 57,289 0 0 0 0 232,198,091 791,609 4,503 0 0 0 0 0 0 20,209,871 0 8,889 11,151,966 26,253,880 1,500,000 0 2,757,475 0 193 298,104 21,047,855 500,000 795,036 23,029,138 34,087 9,082 11,450,070 47,301,735 234,198,091 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 2.1 2.2 2.5 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.6 4.1 Military defence Civil defence Defence n.e.c. Police services Fire-protection services Law courts Prisons Public order and safety n.e.c. General economic, commercial and labour affairs 801 307 345 314 347 314 314 204 216 218 311 371 314 301 314 349 301 306 330 365 Local Level Ministry of Industry Ministry of Defence Ministry of Home Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Home Ministry of Home Courts Office of the Attorney General Council of Justice Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Home Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Supply Ministry of Commerce Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development DEFENCE PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY ECONOMIC AFFAIRS 02 03 04 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6,913,096 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 0 185,603 5,164,366 83,284 85,290 5,185,872 448 969,957 250,247 9,087 6,788 4,463 550,156 598,148 849,889 777,581 71,591,418 46,500 1,093,990 1,732,714 225,054,591 375,568 44,398,196 94,581 87,575 35,602,929 14,044 5,221,665 941,255 73,731 217,953 16,347 1,784,257 872,778 4,151,434 1,732,557 146,036,158 645,231 1,784,749 3,257,111 0 189,965 39,233,830 11,297 2,285 30,417,057 13,596 4,251,708 691,008 64,644 211,165 11,884 1,234,101 274,630 3,301,545 954,976 74,444,740 598,731 690,759 1,524,397 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 225,054,591 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 11,570 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 39,423,795 11,297 2,285 30,417,057 13,596 5,230,409 1,234,101 4,531,151 78,156,610 5,349,969 83,284 85,290 5,185,872 448 1,240,542 550,156 2,225,618 74,649,148 44,773,764 94,581 87,575 35,602,929 14,044 6,470,951 1,784,257 6,756,769 152,817,328 0 0 28,281,230 0 0 17,347,924 0 0 56,690,797 39,437,377 41,426,314 122,097,372 5,518,543 9,202,636 223,272,687 44,955,920 50,628,950 454,603,106 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting Fuel and energy Mining, manufacturing and construction Transport Communication Other industries 371 305 312 327 329 336 352 357 365 501 307 308 331 501 307 337 332 337 347 365 501 332 358 501 306 307 312 Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Finance Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Population and environment MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Information and Communications MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Supply Ministry of Industry Ministry of Agriculture Development 1,977,148 4,894,073 0 0 0 0 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 184,526 0 1,672,769 538,478 539,417 1,191,809 64,941 1,373,738 0 0 140,909 5,264,334 0 28,012,698 40,516 3,000,677 28,600 72,538,838 355,525 15,443,937 7,808,000 624,888 553,315 270,000 7,873 3,896,183 0 1,094,079 2,300,000 24,238,236 5,979,871 13,419,653 6,698,622 1,026,569 25,369,103 794,845 1,500,000 188,140 18,651,041 4,732,824 47,852,180 151,779 3,034,412 43,617 93,501,388 1,206,347 15,707,741 7,808,000 778,796 4,648,180 270,000 94,349 6,756,599 23,701 897,983 2,300,000 7,908,563 1,171,800 7,548,623 5,506,813 961,628 1,172,782 0 0 28,353 986,291 0 0 111,263 33,735 15,017 6,960,591 396,654 263,804 0 153,908 4,094,865 0 86,476 2,860,416 23,701 0 0 2,098,796 1,188,410 512,821 0 0 10,837,714 0 1,500,000 0 0 0 18,831,632 0 0 0 13,957,172 449,958 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 11,570 0 12,308,685 3,081,183 885,484 0 0 247,609 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 44,787 4,210 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 26,485 0 2,634,003 0 0 11,368,474 708,726 0 798 12,237,605 19,642 1,007,850 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 222,938 0 1,299,305 0 0 368,786 86,119 0 18,080 162,811 4,713,182 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 16,137,741 18,831,632 0 14,407,130 0 7,220,000 16,522,961 0 0 48,997 0 152,802 16,137,741 18,831,632 0 14,407,130 0 7,220,000 26,570,209 1,014,644 144,998 7,636,066 4,248,773 3,509,398 5,381,152 33,417,941 3,041,193 96,174,900 1,448,203 8,749,875 81,326,899 71,424,185 3,186,191 118,267,093 5,696,976 19,632,075 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 4.8 4.9 5.1 5.2 5.5 5.6 6.1 R Economic affairs Economic affairs n.e.c. Waste management Waste water management R Environmental protection Environmental protection n.e.c. Housing development 325 329 501 307 308 357 305 501 305 313 365 501 313 357 329 501 313 329 331 332 347 305 347 Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Finance MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Finance Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation MOF Policy Financing Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Population and environment Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Finance Ministry of Urban Development ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION HOUSING AND COMMUNITY AMENITIES 05 06 41,875 0 481,759 0 23,010 1,160,313 693,006 1,665,082 1,463,110 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 456,964 77,855 4,311,000 0 0 0 110,275 300,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 370,960 92,734 0 0 16,228,945 1,134,865 91,561 11,531,000 705,888 648,364 319,522 278,585 300,000 230,000 399,345 16,383 3,541,272 447,401 888,092 28,553 2,826,362 15,646 1,454,395 2,914,959 325,115 2,051,501 693,006 25,730,453 525,099 13,706 0 0 648,364 0 168,310 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 237,546 232,381 0 0 1,577,599 0 0 7,220,000 94,294 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,461,272 444,432 869,605 0 0 0 446,272 6,474 0 84,971 0 2,802,386 152,802 0 0 611,594 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,969 18,487 0 0 0 73,008 110,428 0 911,118 0 5,121,523 0 0 0 0 0 277,647 0 0 0 158,002 5,967 80,000 0 0 5,543 2,826,362 56 747,001 1,317,902 0 970,452 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 41,875 0 0 230,000 241,343 10,416 0 0 0 23,010 0 15,590 188,114 871,649 0 84,960 693,006 0 Recurrent Total 94,294 0 3,461,272 1,314,037 0 537,717 2,802,386 611,594 0 0 21,456 0 1,094,554 5,121,523 94,294 0 3,461,272 1,314,037 0 537,717 2,802,386 648,364 168,310 0 0 0 469,927 1,577,599 0 410,275 0 0 0 463,694 16,715,945 1,673,774 578,585 4,187,000 1,335,493 2,854,915 6,761,616 26,910,459 6,111,285 13,143,385 1,116,010 6,388,548 5,313,026 14,846,021 469,927 2,487,599 463,694 24,733,863 15,139,024 63,062,526 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 6.2 6.3 6.6 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 7.6 Community development Water supply Housing and community amenities n.e.c. Medical products, appliances and equipment Out-patient services Hospital services Public health services R Health Health n.e.c. 501 329 340 347 365 313 347 365 501 365 370 306 370 314 345 370 601 365 370 370 350 MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development MOF Policy Financing Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Supply Ministry of Health Ministry of Home Ministry of Defence Ministry of Health MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Health Ministry of Education HEALTH RECREATION,CULTURE AND RELIGION 07 08 0 770,104 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 487,000 0 1,000 87,851 2,822,622 0 640,845 0 0 4,465,600 384,246 10,000 429,386 165,207 0 432,901 0 0 4,178,227 132,482 0 487,000 309,830 110,320 158,150 4,756,076 21,721,681 694,055 1,368,629 2,423,200 4,610,126 644,491 174,775 5,745,535 742,497 687,922 8,326,882 6,600,000 469,976 12,596,274 4,112,800 988,712 0 0 109,320 70,299 532,645 0 53,210 0 0 144,526 260,245 164,775 5,316,149 577,290 687,922 7,893,981 6,600,000 0 8,017,377 3,980,318 988,712 0 60,316 0 0 1,372,000 8,328,619 0 0 2,282,700 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7,500 342,600 0 0 0 249,514 0 0 28,809 988,702 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 462,476 58,070 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12,068,461 0 934,424 140,500 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 335,899 0 434,205 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 1,432,316 10,611,319 0 0 0 0 350,100 0 0 278,323 988,702 0 0 0 0 520,546 0 0 1,432,316 10,611,319 0 0 0 0 350,100 0 0 712,264 53,210 144,526 260,245 5,480,924 15,759,193 8,017,377 3,980,318 988,712 2,911,473 640,845 4,465,600 384,246 439,386 598,108 4,178,227 132,482 0 5,334,376 26,207,565 4,610,126 644,491 5,920,310 16,357,301 13,066,250 4,112,800 988,712 0 0 520,546 0 350,100 0 34,486,769 5,168,262 5,732,449 803,754 41,089,864 5,972,016 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 8.1 8.2 8.3 8.5 9.1 9.2 9.5 9.6 9.8 10.4 10.7 10.8 10.9 Recreational and sporting services Cultural services Broadcasting and publishing services R Recreation, culture and religion Pre-primary and primary education Secondary education Education not definable by level Subsidiary services to education Education n.e.c. Family and children Social exclusion n.e.c. R Social protection Social protection n.e.c. 343 325 365 358 325 350 350 350 350 350 370 301 365 352 371 314 340 Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Ministry of Health Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry of Home Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare EDUCATION SOCIAL PROTECTION 09 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Highly Relevant Relevant Description 2,826 742,884 12,253 39,542 6,249 1,499 0 262,137 138,750 5,580 0 728 31,442 3,447 6,090 171,534 204,137 2,242,436 3,252,890 48,765 328,219 99,706 5,612,478 4,475,269 26,711,414 26,707,936 1,628,607 355,117 56,748 36,168,935 309,545 31,745 219,169 2,118,110 2,239,610 2,510,006 36,512 288,677 93,457 5,610,979 4,475,269 26,449,277 26,569,186 1,623,027 355,117 56,020 36,137,493 306,098 25,655 47,635 1,913,973 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recurrent Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,239,610 2,546,518 288,677 93,457 5,610,979 4,475,269 26,449,277 26,569,186 1,623,027 355,117 36,193,513 331,753 1,961,608 2,826 755,137 39,542 6,249 1,499 0 262,137 138,750 5,580 0 32,170 9,537 375,671 2,242,436 3,301,655 328,219 99,706 5,612,478 4,475,269 26,711,414 26,707,936 1,628,607 355,117 36,225,683 341,290 2,337,279 0 0 0 0 0 0 64,727,738 38,841,991 407,966 417,378 65,135,704 39,259,369 Neutral Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing 10,129,323 Highly Relevant Relevant Description Total Recurrent Total 47,601,952 257,631,835 77,996,056 535,770,296 349,865,393 1,278,994,855 Neutral Capital and Financing 57,731,275 Grant Total 335,627,891 885,635,689 Recurrent Capital and Financing Recurrent Capital and Financing Description Amount Code Percent 1 2 3 Hilghly Relevent Relevent Neutral 57731275 335627891 885635689 4.52 26.24 69.24 2073/74 2074/75 2072/73 Courts Office of the Auditor General Prime Minister and Council of Minister's Office Ministry of Finance Ministry of Supply Ministry of Industry Ministry of Energy Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry of Agriculture Development Ministry of drinking and sanitation Ministry of Home Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry of Livestock Development Ministry of Forestry and Soil Conservation Ministry of Commerce Ministry of Population and environment Ministry of Science & Technology Ministry of Land Reforms and Management Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport Ministry of Women, Children & Social Welfare Ministry of Youth and Sports Ministry of Defence Ministry of Urban Development Ministry of Peace & Reconstruction Ministry of Education Ministry of Cooperative and poverty Alleviation Ministry of General Administration 4,27,69 0 7,23,78,51 22,02,18 0 34,40,00 0 1,76,50 11,82,72,42 0 23,74,32 31,37,37 1,72,85 0 19,93,74 0 60,28,72 0 30,26,48 2,50,00 41,87,77 84,24,12 56,62 28,52,27 15,65,40 62,94,77,41 47,82,29 1,45,60 0 2,23,40,03 0 0 0 52,40,93 0 1,68,05,25 0 5,81,75 1,33,54,29 0 0 4,32,29 0 3,29,53,03 0 0 4,37,41,54 10,66,57 88,16,96 0 2,31,11,70 4,57,76 13,60,24,99 12,78,27 5,73,29 0 9,47,18,54 22,02,18 0 34,40,00 52,40,93 1,76,50 13,50,77,67 0 29,56,07 1,64,91,66 1,72,85 0 24,26,03 0 3,89,81,75 0 30,26,48 4,39,91,54 52,54,34 1,72,41,08 56,62 2,59,63,97 20,23,16 76,55,02,40 60,60,56 4,34,44 2,21 47,00,69 3,04,63,76 3,69,98 46,07,95 20,00,00 3,03,50 7,82,62,42 4,60 19,57,12 95,39,72 4,09,53 48,92,34 27,20,51 19,41 26,08,91 0 99,61,26 2,43,79 43,23,32 19,42,07 52,09 19,42,70 73,08,63 78,59,59,02 17,58,30 2,74,88 0 48,29,53,81 48,70,08 0 0 54,78,60 4,92,20 4,66,01,77 0 6,43,50 2,37,29,68 0 46,26,77 10,43,66 0 4,93,25,85 0 0 4,01,39,93 9,42,30 78,50,82 0 4,12,61,40 0 12,54,18,58 49,56,96 7,09,32 2,21 48,76,54,50 3,53,33,84 3,69,98 46,07,95 74,78,60 7,95,70 12,48,64,19 4,60 26,00,62 3,32,69,40 4,09,53 95,19,11 37,64,17 19,41 5,19,34,76 0 99,61,26 4,03,83,72 52,65,62 97,92,89 52,09 4,32,04,10 73,08,63 91,13,77,60 67,15,26 Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total 4,50,00 2,30 43,33,54 3,55,82,01 0 27,48,84 65,00,00 3,13,00 8,16,52,97 10,00 21,45,02 55,28,85 3,93,50 63,20,25 42,56,13 0 0 4,50 1,09,42,69 3,00,00 31,52,12 28,15,32 1,01,20 10,98,21 55,53,41 31,18,71,87 26,36,22 2,50,00 0 67,59,18,28 69,30,06 0 11,50,00 64,59,95 0 2,62,08,30 0 8,67,56 2,39,38,45 0 3,58,00 9,70,23 0 4,55,01,31 50,00 0 4,47,00,00 11,41,00 68,70,00 0 6,86,92,80 0 14,34,91,78 43,00,00 7,00,00 2,30 68,02,51,82 4,25,12,07 0 38,98,84 1,29,59,95 3,13,00 10,78,61,27 10,00 30,12,58 2,94,67,30 3,93,50 66,78,25 52,26,36 0 4,55,01,31 54,50 1,09,42,69 4,50,00,00 42,93,12 96,85,32 1,01,20 6,97,91,01 55,53,41 45,53,63,65 69,36,22 Estimate Actual Fiscal Year 2074/75 Grant / Subsidies Summary (Rs. in '000 ) Annex -17 Heading Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total 204 208 301 305 306 307 308 311 312 313 314 325 326 327 329 330 331 332 336 337 340 343 345 347 349 350 352 2073/74 2074/75 2072/73 Ministry of Irrigation Ministry of Information and Communications Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development Ministry of Health Ministry of Labour and Employment MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits MOF Miscellaneous State Local Level 17,36,83 14,21 51,26,47 9,99,94,92 4,77,03,13 1,38,09 0 30,94,81 0 0 8,61,43 1,49,79 12,74,44 19,72,98,73 3,56,39,70 0 0 14,38,66,87 0 0 25,98,26 1,64,00 64,00,91 29,72,93,65 8,33,42,83 1,38,09 0 14,69,61,68 0 0 21,17,58 7,80 57,71,18 10,17,17,36 7,36,53,83 82,45 0 2,53,18,17 0 0 25,91,86 1,68,22 12,53,70 39,12,00,09 4,66,48,73 0 0 2,79,86,65 0 0 47,09,44 1,76,02 70,24,88 49,29,17,45 12,03,02,56 82,45 0 5,33,04,82 0 0 2,47,59,16,68 1,31,04,60,04 1,16,54,56,64 1,70,84,77,04 68,54,41,92 1,02,30,35,12 Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total 25,91,75 12,00 64,24,78 99,19,28 7,31,12,49 37,00 0 5,75,00,00 7,14,35,00 2,25,05,45,91 2,96,02,90,16 32,61,91 4,23,58 28,74,19 10,32,63,96 4,14,51,19 0 0 0 0 0 1,20,90,72,55 58,53,66 4,35,58 92,98,97 11,31,83,24 11,45,63,68 37,00 0 5,75,00,00 7,14,35,00 2,25,05,45,91 4,16,93,62,71 Estimate Actual Heading Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total Recurrent Grant Capital Grant Total Total Expenditure 356 357 358 365 370 371 601 602 701 801 12,78,99,48,55 Total Amount STG Code(Sustainable Development Goals) wise Allocation (Rs. '000) STG Code Fiscal Year 2017/18 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Percentage 15.98 4.75 2.56 5.30 .16 2.59 5.42 .73 12.46 .27 18.84 .01 .30 1.28 28.76 .59 100 No poverty Zero hunger Good health and well being Quality education Gender equality Clean water and sanitation Affordable and clean energy Decent work and economic growth Industry, innovation and infrastructure Reduced inequalities Sustainable cities and communities Responsible consumption and production Climate action Life below water Life on land Peace, justice and strong institutions Partnerships for the goals Annex -18 204403217 60741069 32727152 67846040 1990179 33146553 69324409 9306088 159349667 3464754 240979018 94349 3798465 16311980 367901980 7609935