Public Announcement of Income-Expenditure Details of Fiscal Year 2021/22 Government of Nepal Ministry of Finance 2021 Delivered by Honourable Finance Minister Mr. Bishnu Prasad Paudel Public Announcement of Income-Expenditure Details of Fiscal Year 2021/22 Government of Nepal Ministry of Finance 29 May 2021 https://www.mof.gov.np Unofficial Translation 1 Respected Sisters and Brothers, 1. I am here to publicly announce the details of incom e and expenditure of the fiscal year 2021/22 with the firm belief that the lives of the citizens can be saved and the economy can be revived by making it more vibrant even at th e most challenging situation that we have ever had in our lifetime due to COVID-19 pandemic. 2. As the House of Representatives has been dissolved as per the constitutional provision, it is not possible to present the revenue and expenditure estimates to the Federal Parliament. The Right Honorable President has already issued Ap propriation Ordinance, Fiscal Ordinance and Ordinance to Raise National Debt. I h ave included core contents of these laws in the statement of income and expenditure. 3. The COVID-19 pandemic that appeared in early 2020, has severely affected our trajectory of development and prosperity. Many Nepa li have lost their jobs and employment due to the mandatory measures adopted to prevent and control the pandemic. Despite tireless efforts made for the pre vention, control and treatment of this infection, a large number of Nepali have lost their lives. I extend my heartfelt tribute to all the Nepali people who lost their lives from this pandemic. I express my condolences to deceased families. I wish for the speedy recovery of the infected patients. 4. Today, 29 th of May, is the Republic Day. I pay homage to all t he martyrs who sacrificed their lives during people’s movement for establishi ng federal democratic republic. I express my sincere respect to the seniors, sisters and brothers who have led and contributed to these movements. 5. Additional challenges are being emerged due to the increasing risk of second wave of COVID19 pandemic. The duration of the risk of inf ection and its effects have remained uncertain. At this time of crisis, the Government h as paid the topmost priority to the responsibility of saving the life of every Nepali i ndividual. The Government is committed towards continuing economic activities by adopting health protocol amid the pandemic. 6. The Federal Democratic Republic, established on the foundation of the historic people's movement, has provided us the basis to advance towa rds lasting peace, stability, development, prosperity, social justice and sociali sm. It has opened the avenues of possibilities to realize every Nepali’s desire for change and the dream of development and prosperity. A solid foundation has been laid fo r fulfilling the national aspirations of Prosperous Nepal Happy Nepali through a multi-dimensional and rapid development with social justice. The pent-up dreams of people h ave been awakened and new benchmark of development and prosperity have been established to move forward. 7. Under the leadership of the present government, we have achieved remarkable success in the field of development and social justice. Decades long crisis ridden Melamchi Drinking Water Project has come into operation. The Upper Tamakoshi Hydropower Project is near to its completion. The morale of all Nepali people has been boosted with the rebuilding of collapsed Dharahara. The results achieved so far in road construction, hydropower generation, post-earthquake reconstruction and econ omic recovery have been notable. We have succeeded in conveying the positive message that the development efforts can be accelerated through advancement with the right p olicy, competent leadership, strong confidence and dedication. 8. I have considered the Constitution of Nepal, Electi on Manifesto, Fifteenth Plan, national aspiration of Prosperous Nepal Happy Nepali , determination to graduate in a developing country and Sustainable Development Goal s as the fundamental basis for 2 formulating budget for the next fiscal year. I have been guided by the objective of ending all kinds of social and economic discrimination; ma king the journey of development, prosperity and social justice more vibrant; and building the foundation of socialism. I have duly considered the suggestions received from elect ed representatives, private sector, intellectuals, professionals and the general public. Respected Sisters and Brothers, The Economic Survey 2020/21 with the inclusion of key indicators, statistics and details of the economy has already been published. Now I will briefly present the overview of current economic situation of the country: 9. The economic growth rate of the last fiscal year re mained negative by 2.1 percent due to the impact of COVID-19 pandemic. The economic growth rate is estimated to be around 4 percent in the current fiscal year as a result of positive impact of the economic recovery policies and programmes implemented by the governme nt. However, there has been additional challenge to achieve the estimated economic growth as economic activities have been re-affected by the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic. 10. Per capita GDP in the current price is estimated to reach US Dollars 1,191 in comparison to the US Dollars 1,126 last year and per capita disposable income is estimated to remain at US Dollars 1,486. Total investment and total nat ional saving are projected to remain at 30.8 percent and 31.4 percent of GDP, respectively. 11. Despite health risk, inflation is subdued due to continuation in supply chain. Consumer price inflation, which stood at 6.7 percent last year, has dropped to 3.1 percent in the first nine months of the current fiscal year. The balance of payments is in surplus, remittance inflows has increased, foreign exchange reserves are adequa te, growth rate of loans and deposits has been positive, and transaction in capi tal market has been increasing. However, these indicators are expected to remain un der pressure due to the emerging risk of second wave of COVID19. 12. In the first 10 months of the current fiscal year, public expenditure has increased by 16 percent and revenue collection by 14.1 percent as compared to the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year. By mid-April, Rs. 202. 28 billion foreign aid commitment has been received. Fiscal transfer to the provinces and local levels has increased by 15.7 percent to Rs. 294.33 billion. Revenue sharing with provinces and local levels has reached to Rs. 91.47 billion. 13. In the first nine months of the current fiscal year , export has surged by 20.2 percent and import by 13.1 percent. Trade deficit has declined while balance of payments has remained surplus by Rs. 42.54 billion. Foreign exch ange reserves stood at Rs. 1,433.27 billion. 14. The revised public expenditure for the current fisc al year is expected to remain at 85.9 percent of the total allocation. Within the total a llocation, 91.4 percent will be spent on recurrent expenditure, 71.3 percent on capital expenditure while that of 85.2 percent will be towards financing. 15. Revenue collection in the current fiscal year is es timated to be 94.8 percent against the annual target. Foreign Grants Rs. 27.06 billion and foreign debt of Rs. 165.10 billion are estimated to be mobilized. Internal debt mobilizati on is estimated to remain at Rs. 223 billion. 3 Respected Sisters and Brothers, Now, I would like to present the objectives and priorities of the budget for the coming FY 2021/22. The objectives of the budget are as follows: a) To protect the lives of the citizen from the COVID19 pandemic, b) To speed up economic activities and development pr ogrammes for the rapid recovery of the economy, c) To strengthen the role of the state in public welfa re, provide social security and protection and achieve prosperity along with social justice, and d) To build resilient economy by mobilizing the resour ces and means available with public, private and cooperatives in the productive sector. I have set the following priorities to achieve objectives of the budget: a) Expanding the coverage of COVID19 tests, provisio n of treatment, supply of health equipment and logistics, assurance of free v accination, development of health infrastructure and effective mobilization of doctors and health workers for prevention, control and treatment of COVID-19, b) Providing relief to the families affected by COVID19, expansion of economic activities through incentive, facilitation and recovery to the private sector, c) Ensuring work and employment for workers entering i n the labor market and for those who have lost employment, d) Ensuring life cycle based social security and protection for all Nepali citizens, e) Enhancing agricultural production and productivity and assurance of food security, f) Investing in educational infrastructure for life-sustaining and skill-based education, g) Building infrastructure of strategic importance tha t supports to achieve rapid industrialization and quick returns, h) Balancing development through coordination and coll aboration among the federal, provincial and local levels, i) Eliminating all forms of discrimination and inequal ity, equitable development and fair access to the outcome of development, j) Enhancing accountable governance system, assurance of peace and security, corruption control, good governance and effectiveness in service delivery. Respected Sisters and Brothers, Now, I would like to present the details of fiscal transfer at the federal, provincial and local levels: 4 16. I have increased the Equalization, Special and Matc hing grants to be transferred to the provinces and local levels as well as conditional g rants to be provided for the federal projects and programmes to be implemented from the provinces and local levels. 17. I have allocated Rs. 57. 95 billion and Rs. 94.56 b illion equalization grants to the provinces and local levels respectively based on th e formula recommended by the National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission. T owards conditional grant, I have allocated Rs. 35.87 billion to the provinces and Rs . 173.50 billion to the local levels. I have allocated Rs. 12.37 billion as a matching gran t and Rs. 12.46 billion as a special grant. I have estimated that a total of Rs. 126.69 billion will be shared among the provinces and local levels as a revenue sharing. 18. I have made a provision of fiscal transfer in the form of conditional grant for the projects to be implemented in the co-finance of federal, province and local levels. Now I would like to present the programmes and allo cations of budget for the coming fiscal year: COVID-19 Infection Prevention, Control and Treatment 19. The government is committed to protect the lives of all Nepali people by adopting reliable measures of prevention, control and treatment of CO VID-19 pandemic. The budget is focused towards utilizing all available prospects including the entire capacities to minimize health risks. There will not be any shortage of fun ds required for the prevention, control and treatment as well as the assurance of COVID-19 vaccine. 20. I have arranged free tests and treatment of COVID-1 9 in all government laboratories and hospitals. I have allocated the necessary budge t for the purchase of oxygen plant, and cylinder as well as tank for transportation and storage of liquid oxygen. In order to avoid the shortage of oxygen for the treatment of C OVID-19 infected patients, I have arranged for the mandatory installment of their own oxygen plant in those hospitals having more than 100 beds capacity. 21. I have exempted all customs duties and Value Added Tax on the importation of equipment required for the establishment of oxygen industry. Fifty percent of the total costs will be provided as capital grant to those community and pr ivate hospitals installing their own oxygen plants. I have arranged to exempt 50 percent of the electricity tariffs incurred from the production of oxygen during COVID-19 pandemic. 22. I have allocated Rs. 4 billion for the purchase of necessary equipment including ICU, HDU, ventilator and testing kits needed for the treatmen t of COVID-19 patients. I have exempted customs duty on the importation of medicin es required for the treatment of COVID-19. I have made an arrangement for mobilizing in hospital the retired and interned doctors, nurses and other health workers on contract basic for the period of one year with salary and 50 percent risk allowance in o rder to avoid the shortage of human resources for the treatment. 23. To control the risk of COVID-19 infection, health desk will be operated and holding center will be established in the border points and airpor ts. I have allocated the necessary budget for the construction of quarantine, contact tracing, establishment of isolation center, for provision of human resources as well as regular supply of medical equipment at all local levels. No one will be deprived of receiving the health treatment on the ground of lacking beds in hospitals. 5 24. I have made an arrangement for providing free healt h services including regular observation of health condition, mobile service for counseling and treatment, operation of call center psycho-social counseling, emergency tre atment and oxygen support to the patients infected by COVID-19 staying in home isolation. 25. The present accountable government is committed to make free vaccination available to all Nepali brothers and sisters against COVID-19. In this connection, I would like to remind that Nepal is one of the few nations in the world that has begun the vaccination campaign and being the second nation in South Asia to start an inoculation. The vaccination campaign will be completed by utilizing our available resources and capacities to the extent possible so as to ensure speedy vaccination for every Nepali of all age groups who are yet to be vaccinated, by procuring vaccines from the vaccine producer countries and companies. I have allocated Rs. 26.75 billion for the arrangement of vaccine. 26. The concept of Central Command Approach will be implemented in all types of hospitals and health centers to provide treatment to all COVI D-19 infected patients. I have arranged to make public the details regarding the a vailability of specialist doctors, oxygen and ventilator, ICU, HDU and hospital beds on a regular basis. 27. I have given continuity to risk allowances as well as other fringe benefits provided as an incentive until the prevalence of infection risk to those health workers and staff working in the lab, and cleaners and security personnel who ar e directly engaged in COVID -19 prevention and treatment. 28. I have allocated Rs. 37.53 billion for the prevention, control and treatment of COVID-19. Reforms in Health System 29. Fundamental rights of citizen to obtain free basic health services will be guaranteed. Seventy types of medicines that are being distributed free of cost by the government will be continued to all health centers. The price and q uality of medicines will be monitored regularly. I have allocated Rs. 5.60 billion for medicine purchase. 30. I have given continuity to the grants being provided currently for the treatment of indigent having heart disease, kidney disease, Cancer, Parki nson, Alzheimer, Spinal injury and Sickle-cell anemia as well as free treatment to the children under the age of 14 and the senior citizens above the age of 70 having heart disease. I have allocated Rs. 2.50 billion for this. 31. I have allocated Rs. 1.30 billion for the construct ion of a well-equipped hospital with 3 hundred beds in Kathmandu valley and with 50 beds i n all provinces for communicable disease within next fiscal year. 32. Maternity and neonatal care services will be brought into operation in all district hospitals. A maternal waiting room equipped with prenatal health check-up and medical facility will be operated in 20 districts of remote areas includi ng Humla, Dolpa, Mugu, Bajhang to improve maternal health. The IVF services for sub-f ertile couple will be expanded to the public hospitals of Biratnagar, Birgunj, Butwal and Dhangadi. 33. In order to ensure quality health to the general public, the elementary hospitals with 5, 10 and 15 beds that are under construction in current fiscal year in 397 local levels will be completed and brought into operation within the next 2 years. The construction works for 6 elementary hospitals that are yet to be established at the remaining local levels will be initiated in the coming fiscal year. I have allocated Rs. 6.15 billion for this purpose. 34. I have allocated budget for child health and nourishment programmes to be implemented at local levels. I have also made budget allocation s to make the country fully vaccinated next year by providing 13 types of vaccination serv ices including BCG, Polio, DPT, Measles and Typhoid to children. Vaccination servic es will be provided to 620 thousand children in the coming year. 35. Access to health services to general public will be established through the expansion of hospitals and health posts as well as through the telemedicine, mobile health service, free pregnancy test service, maternity service, vaccinat ion service, community-based rehabilitation and palliative services. 36. I have increased the existing travel expenses by 10 0 percent to Rs. 12 thousand for women health workers across the country. 37. All local levels will be declared Tuberculosis-free zone within next two years. I have allocated Rs. 1.46 billion for Malaria, Tuberculosi s, AIDS, sexually transmitted diseases and leprosy control programmes. 38. I have arranged the establishment, upgradation and expansion of a specialized hospital with skilled doctors and modern equipment to diagno se and treat the non-communicable diseases including high blood pressure, diabetes, h eart and kidney disease, and cancer caused by the changed lifestyles, food habits and environmental pollution. 39. I have made arrangements for free testing of blood pressure, urine and glucose in blood, breast cancer and cervical cancer once a year to the citizens above forty years. Vaccine programme against cervical cancer will be implemented in 9 districts of 3 provinces. 40. An arrangement will be made to run a Satellite-clinics with regular specialized service at least in one public hospital by all medical colleges, Health Science Academy and Central Hospitals. A provision for Health institutions havi ng more than 50 beds will be made for them to operate mobile health clinic mandatorily once in a month in their respective service areas. 41. An arrangement will be made to allocate at least 10 beds for the treatment of mental disease in community and private hospitals having m ore than 200 beds. Geriatric wards will be established in all the hospitals having more than 50 beds. 42. I have allocated budget for the construction of the ultramodern super-specialty center at Kirtipur, Kathmandu having one thousand five hundre d beds for the specialized medical services including diagnosis, treatment, teaching a nd research of Nephrology, Urology, Cardiology surgery, Pulmonology, Gastroenterology a nd Gastro surgery in order to ensure in-country quality health service of international standard by ending the compulsion to visit abroad for the treatment of complex and fa tal diseases. The construction of such hospitals will be initiated and brought into operation within the next three years. 43. National Institute of Cancer Studies will be established for the study, research and cure of Cancer. Bhaktapur Cancer Hospital, BP Koirala Memo rial Cancer Hospital and Sushil Koirala Prakhar Cancer Hospital will be operated under this institute. 44. I have allocated Rs.1.28 billion for infrastructure s development of Manmohan Cardiovascular and Transplant Center, Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital, BP Koirala 7 Cancer Hospital, GP Koirala National Respiratory Cu re Center, Sushil Koirala Prakhar Cancer Hospital, Ramraja Prasad Singh Health Science Academy. 45. I have allocated Rs. 340 million for infrastructure development including the ICU ward of Kanti Children Hospital. I have allocated Rs. 580 m illion for the operation of child heart disease unit and upgradation of the Operation Theatre by extending the service of Shahid Gangalal Heart Disease Hospital. 46. An ultramodern well-equipped hospital with internat ional standards will be built in Duwakot, Bhaktapur to operate the extended service of Bir Hospital. Preparatory works including Detailed Project Report will be concluded in upcoming fiscal year with a target of completing the construction work and bringing it into operation within next three years. The hospital will be brought into operation through the integrated management physical infrastructures, equipment and manpower. Arrangemen t will be made to include this project in National Pride Project for executing it through the separate project office. Four lane corridor road will be built along both sides o f Manohara river from Jadibutti to the hospital site. 47. I have allocated budget for the establishment of Trauma Center in Dhalkebar, Bardaghat and Lamki in the coming fiscal year. Feasibility st udy for the establishment of a Trauma Center in Belkhu of Dhading will be completed. 48. National Public Health Laboratory will be upgraded as a Center of Excellence by developing infrastructures and providing necessary equipment in order to end the compulsion of sending the sample abroad for testing . I have allocated a budget for upgrading provincial laboratory as Referral Laborat ory. A separate mechanism will be set up to determine and regulate the standard of radiology and imaging service provided by the community and private health institutes. 49. Citizen Awareness Programme will be conducted for h ealthy thoughts and diet and regular exercise in order to make Healthy Nepal Campaign effective. Ayurved, naturopathy and alternative medicine will be promot ed. Ayurvedic and naturopathic hospitals will be established in all provinces. 50. Minimum of 50 percent family will be brought into i nsurance net by expanding health insurance programmes to all local levels within the coming fiscal year. The institutional capacity of Health Insurance Board will be enhanced . Alternative financial resources will be provided for the sustainability of insurance pro gramme. I have allocated Rs. 7.50 billion for the implementation of health insurance programme. 51. Integrated Laws will be formulated to make the role of Health Science Academy, Commission and Research Center more effective. Nece ssary positions will be created for newly established and upgraded hospitals and health institutions. 52. I have increased the budget of the Ministry of Health and Population to Rs. 122.77 billion. Now I would like to present the budget and allocati on for relief, incentives and economic recovery programmes. 8 Relief, Incentives and Economic Recovery 53. Relief, incentive and economic recovery programmes will be implemented to revive the economy, weakened by the adverse effect of COVID-19 pandemic; to promote the main driving sector of the economy and to achieve the goal of rapid economic growth. 54. I have made provision to exempt the tariff of up to 20 thousand liters of drinking water per month being distributed for the households from Nepal Water Supply Corporation, Kathmandu Upatyaka Khanepani Limited and local levels, in order to improve the health of the citizens by ensuring quality drinking water facility. 55. I have made an arrangement to provide 20 percent di scount on the selling price of rice, flour, pulses, salt, edible oil, sugar and cooking gas sold by Food Management and Trading Company Limited and Salt Trading Corporatio n Limited during the prohibitory order period. 56. I have arranged to provide full exemption of demand fee and tariff of electricity to be paid by all types of drinking water and irrigation consumer committee including partnership and co-financing. During the prohibitory order period for small and domestic electricity consumers, 100 percent tariff discount will be given to and those consuming up to 20 units per month, 50 percent consuming up to 1 50 units per month and 30 percent consuming up to 250 units. Arrangements to exempt e lectricity demand charge will be made for manufacturing industries, hotels and film industries during the prohibitory order period. 57. I have made an arrangement for autorenewal of the businesses that are affected by COVID19 including hotel, travel, trekking, tourism business, public transport, air service, film industry, handicraft industry, media house, ad vertising service, tailoring, beauty parlor, health club by waiving their license and renewal fees for the FY 2021/22. I have arranged to provide the amount as per the criteria prescribed by the Government of Nepal to those hotels that are not in operation due to COVID-19 pandemic if they are operated as isolation centers. Hotel and tourism se ctor will be eligible to get similar facilities provided to manufacturing industries. 58. I have arranged to provide 25 percent subsidy on th e freight of perishable consumer goods including milk, vegetables, fruits, fish and meat from the production site to the nearest market center. A subsidy of 50 percent will be provided to small farmers through local level for the purchase of paddy seeds. 59. I have arranged to provide loan up to Rs. 80 thousa nd at one percent interest rate for the period of two years to purchase a laptop with the objective of assisting in alternative learning for the students studying in higher second ary and upper levels at public schools and colleges. A SIM card will be provided free of c ost to each student above 16 years of age. 60. The Government of Nepal will bear the contribution amount of Jestha and Ashadh 2078 (last two months of current fiscal year) to be depo sited by the workers and employers in Social Security Fund. I have allocated necessary budget for this. 61. I have given continuity to the Business Continuity Fund established for the payment of wages and business operations of the labors and emp loyees working in domestic, small, medium and large-scale industries, tourism, private educational institutions, transportation, film industry and media houses. 9 62. An arrangement will be made to provide discount up to 50 percent on the rent to be paid by the businessmen who have rented houses, warehous es or land of government and government owned entities during prohibitory order period. 63. I have arranged to extend the Public Procurement Ag reement for six months without any penalty and no additional fee will be charged while extending bank guarantee period. Arrangements will be made for the contractors to ge t back the retention money against the bank guarantee equivalent to 50 percent of such money in order to facilitate current capital management. The Fund will be mobilized for capacity building and corporate interests of construction entrepreneurs. 64. I have given continuity to the refinancing facility being provided by Nepal Rastra Bank at five percent interest rate for COVID-19 affected entrepreneurs. The scope of business and the amount of money available to use the refinancing facility will be expanded. 65. The range and scope of concessional loans provided to micro, small and medium enterprises, commercial agriculture, youth enterpri ses, women enterprises and persons returning from foreign employment will be expanded. I have allocated Rs. 13 billion for this purpose to provide interest subsidy of 5 percent. 66. Tourism leave will be provided to the employees of civil service, public enterprises and academies with the amount equivalent of 10 days rem uneration in order to promote domestic tourism. The private sector will also be e ncouraged to provide similar facilities to their employees. 67. The concept of public-private partnership will be i mplemented in the construction, operation and maintenance of roads, energy, railway s and airport projects. Legal arrangement will be made to provide capital grant u p to 30 percent of the project cost for Viability Gap Funding. I believe, this will pro mote private investment and contribute to job creation. I have allocated budget for viability gap funding. 68. With the objective of motivating youth entrepreneur s to get involved in startup business, seed capital loan up to Rs. 2.50 million at an inte rest rate of 1 percent will be provided by keeping project itself as collateral. I have arr anged to provide free registration, renewal and other services for startup business thr ough one window system. Policy facilitation will be made to attract foreign invest ment in startup business. For this, I have set up a challenge fund of Rs. 1 billion. 69. One-month gratis tourist visa will be provided to the foreign tourists visiting Nepal. Now, I would like to present the budget and alloc ation for Labor, Employment and Social Security Programme. Labor and Employment Creation 70. Work and employment opportunities will be created in coordination and cooperation with government, private, cooperative and non-government sectors to ensure decent jobs to all citizens. 71. The Prime Minister Employment Programme will be restructured to ensure minimum of 100 days employment to the unemployed person. An arrang ement will be made to conclude procurement contract so that the unemployed persons enlisted in the Employment Service Centers will be hired in the federal, provincial an d local level projects and programmes 10 including roads, irrigation, buildings, bridges, ri ver training, tree plantation that are implemented at the local level. I have allocated Rs . 12 billion to create 200 thousand employments in the next year through Prime Minister Employment Programme. 72. I have allocated Rs. 400 million for skill developm ent training to create additional 100 thousand persons in the businesses including handicrafts, plumbing, electrical maintenance, electronics, cook, blacksmiths, carpenters, masons, tailors, beauticians, hairdressers, vehicles and mobile maintenance, particularly targe ting the young people entering into the labor market workers returning from foreign emp loyment and those who have lost their job at home. 73. I have allocated Rs. 1 billion to conduct on-the-jo b trainings in collaboration with the private sector, to the trainee workers of productio n and service industries by providing grant equivalent to minimum remuneration of 3 month s to develop the skilled manpower based on the necessity of the domestic industries. An arrangement will be made to provide basic training to the trainee employees in the same industry where they are guaranteed a minimum employment of 2 years. This programme will create an additional 25 thousand jobs next year. 74. Youths having a graduate degree or above will be provided with concessional loan up to Rs. 2.50 million with maximum five percent interest rate keeping their educational certificates as collateral. 75. All forms of discrimination and violence in the workplace will be eliminated. The principle of equal pay for equal work will be enforced. The p rovision of labor audit will be implemented effectively. Workers' rights, interests , occupational health and safety, minimum wage and compliance of labor laws will be ensured. 76. Arrangements will be made for Group Accidental insurance of the employees and workers from industrial establishments and organized sector free of cost. Group Accidental insurance will be made mandatory for workers involv ed in construction works of public entities. Social Security and Protection 77. The Government of Nepal is committed to ensure social security and protection based on the concept of life cycle consideration by provisioning health check-up and nutrition during pregnancy; free immunizations, nutrition, basic edu cation and scholarships facility in childhood; education, health and employment guarant ee in youth; free treatment and dignified life in the old age. Accordingly, I have increased all types of social security allowances by 33 percent and the monthly allowance for senior citizens has been increased to Rs. 4 thousand. I have allocated Rs. 1 00 billion for the purpose of social security allowance. 78. I have increased the amount of Child Protection Gra nt provided to the orphans, children of dalits , disabled and indigent families by one third. 79. The Government of Nepal will bear the responsibilit y of protection of the disabled, helpless and abandoned persons. All forms of child labor will be abolished. Nepal will be made free from street-people by providing necessary services, facilities, treatment and accommodation. The concept of street-child free Nep al will be implemented by locating, protecting and rehabilitating children. Grants will be provided to encourage the organizations working in this field. 11 80. Feasibility study will be carried out for the estab lishment of Disability Rehabilitation Centers in all the provinces. Treatment services fo r children with mental disorder will be made easy and effective. I have given continuity to the subsidy being offered to the organizations which produce the accessories used by the disables. Public physical structure, infrastructure and means of transportation will be made disable-friendly. 81. The Contributory Pension Fund Act will be amended t o include professors, teachers and other civil servants in this system. The scope of S ocial Security Fund will be extended to include self-employed persons, labors from unorgani zed sectors as well as contract and wage-based labors. 82. I have allocated Rs. 14 billion for the Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Security. Women, Children and Senior Citizens 83. The gender equality policy will be adopted in all t he wings of the nation. Minimum 33 percent women's participation will be ensured in th e executive level of the body to be operated with the grant from the Government of Nepal. 84. Women entrepreneurship will be developed through th e President Women Upliftment Programme. Women from indigent group will be involved in income-generating activities by providing skill-oriented training. Women entrepr eneurship facilitation center will be established at all local levels. The aerial rescue for pregnant and postpartum women from remote areas will be made more effective. 85. The dowry system as a social stigma will be abolish ed. Social awareness, empowerment and women education programmes will be conducted to eliminate ill practice, discrimination and violence against women. Strict l egal provisions will be made against women's violence. Mangala-Sahana Rehabilitation Cen tre will be constructed at Suryabinayak, Bhaktapur to protect the displaced women due to domestic violence. 86. Programmes will be launched for income generation, capacity building and empowerment of women and adolescents of all deprived communitie s including disadvantage, dalit, indigenous, single women, women with disabilities, Badi, kamhalari, kamaiya, Chepang, Raute , endangered and marginalized. 87. Nutritious food, access to the qualitative health s ervice, sports and recreational opportunities will be provided to the children for their mental and physical development. In partnership with the local levels, children’s pa rk and child recreation center will be constructed at 15 places. 88. A Child Academy will be established for the promotion of child literature and harmonious development of children. In order to develop inhere nt talents of children for their multidimensional development, a Children Paradise with quality education will be established at Damak, Jhapa. 89. Child Rehabilitation Center will be operated in Mor ang, Bhaktapur, Kaski and Banke district from the Government level. I have allocated budget for the construction of a wellorganized Child Rehabilitation Center at Dhakaltar, Tanahu. 90. Child welfare official will be assigned at all local levels to protect, promote and regulate child’s rights. 12 91. A separate geriatric ward for the treatment of seni or citizens will be established in all health institutions having more than 100 beds. Cohe sion Center, Daycare Center and Sanatorium Center will be operated for the senior c itizen. I have allocated necessary budget to build a senior citizen home including hos pital facility with the capacity of 500 people at Gothatar, Kathmandu. 92. Arrangement for free medical treatment and protecti on will be made for single woman, widow and widower, physically and mentally disabled , helpless and senior citizen who don't have their own family and protection. The arr angement will be made for free medical treatment to the senior citizens affected f rom Alzheimer's and other aging associated diseases. 93. I have allocated Rs. 1.20 billion in the sector of women, children and senior citizen. Agriculture and Livestock Development 94. Agriculture sector will be developed as the main ba sis of resilient economy by its modernization and commercialization. Arrangements w ill be made for the benefit of producer level farmers through the value chain of a gricultural products. Citizens' right to food and nutrition will be ensured by increasing pr oductivity through diversification and specialization of agricultural products. Leasehold, collective and contract farming will be encouraged by consolidating the cultivable land. 95. The effectiveness of the Prime Minister's Agricultu re Modernization Project will be enhanced. Additional 71 zones including agricultura l crops, fisheries and livestock production will be operated. Rubber zone will be br ought into operation with a view to promote rubber farming. Conditional grant will be provided to the local level in the pocket area for the purchase of combined harvester, power tiller, cultivator, rotavator, harrow and other equipment. In order to provide technical assistance to the farmers of the project area, three hundred undergraduate level students of agriculture will be assigned as interns. One technician having passed bachelor's degree in agriculture will be assigned on contract for one year in all the district agricultu ral knowledge centers. I have allocated Rs. 7.98 billion for the implementation of this project. 96. A policy to provide unused government agricultural firms and barren lands to private sector on lease for commercial farming will be adop ted. I have allocated budget to encourage the private sector investment in fruits i n Bhojpur, Nuwakot, Baitadi and other districts in the hilly region and in commercial liv estock farming in Manang, Mustang, Myagdi and Dolpa and other districts in the Himalayan region. 97. It will be encouraged to plant crops based on geogr aphical and seasonal suitability of crops along with classification of the cultivable l and and soil test. Digital soil mapping system will be implemented by enhancing the capacity of soil testing laboratory. 98. Existing agricultural subsidy system will be review ed and production-based grant as incentive will be provided to farmers, agro-entrepr eneurs, farmer groups and cooperatives. I have arranged to provide subsidy up to 50 percent of the price to those farmers who plant improved seeds purchased from the licensed sellers. For the purpose of agriculture mechanization, I have increased the sco pe and percentage of tax and duty exemption provided on the import of agricultural to ols and equipment along with its machinery parts. 99. Five million fruit saplings will be produced by est ablishing multi-purpose nurseries with medium and high technology. Local level and farmer groups will be encouraged to plant 13 fruits, vegetables and cash crops on the reclaimed, barren and public land along the national highways side. 100. Adequate supply of chemical fertilizers will be ens ured before the time of plantation. I have allocated budget for preliminary works to set up a chemical fertilizer factory within three years. I have increased the subsidy to be pro vided on chemical fertilizers to Rs. 12 billion. 101. The use of organic fertilizer and organic pesticides will be encouraged to promote organic farming. Branding, certification and market promotion of the yield produced in the pocket area of organic farming will be carried out. I have arranged to provide up to 50 percent capital grant to the private sector for the establishment of organic pesticide factory. 102. Industrial agricultural markets and agricultural yi eld processing centers having storage facilities will be established in all provinces. In dustrial agricultural market targeting Cardamom in Ilam, vegetables in Chhattiwan of Makwanpur, ginger in Salyan and apple in Jumla, will be initiated to construct after completing its feasibility study. 103. Procuring arrangements of agricultural products including paddy, wheat and maize having minimum support price will be made through Food Man agement and Trading Company, and Agricultural Cooperatives to store and ensure s mooth and regular supply. Two hundred food storage centers, eighty-nine cold cham ber and cold storage will be established through local level. I have arranged to provide 50 percent subsidy on the insurance premium of the food storage. I have allocated Rs. 840 million to provide subsidy to sugarcane farmers based on their production volu me within 15 days of sales to sugar mills. 104. Agricultural wholesale market will be established i n 17 places including Mechinagar, Rangeli, Ratnanagar, Kageshwari Manahara, Sandhikha rka through province and local levels. Preparatory works will be made to establish agricultural wholesale market in Kapurkot of Salyan and Silgadhi of Doti . Fruit and vegetable haatbazaar (temporary market) under construction in Chobhar of Kathmandu will be brought into operation. Fifty percent capital subsidy will be provided to the loc al levels and agricultural cooperatives for the construction of agricultural ropeways to transport agricultural products. 105. Construction work of agricultural wholesale market with modern technology will be commenced at Karsaghat, Rupendehi for sales and distribution of agricultural products in the domestic and international markets after collecting, processing and branding them. 106. Undue profits of the mediators will be controlled t o ensure fair value of the agricultural yield for the farmers at production level. Arrangem ents will be made to provide regular information through mobile applications to the farmers regarding the availability of seed and fertilizer, market price of all types of agricultural produce and weather condition. 107. I have allocated Rs. 7.60 billion for providing con cessional loan to agriculture-based enterprises and value chain development. The scope of agricultural and livestock insurance will be expanded so that interested farmers can participate. I have given continuity to the provision of providing 50 percent subsidy for the premium of livestock and crops insurance. 108. Nepal will be made self-sufficient in milk and vege tables within next two years; wheat, maize, millet and buckwheat within three years and rice within five years. 109. Milk collection and chilling centers will be establ ished, and capacity will be expanded in Biratnagar, Pokhara and other places to ensure mark et for milk producing farmers. In order to increase the consumption of domestically produced milk and milk products, I have 14 made an arrangement to provide up-to thirty-five pe rcent capital subsidy for the establishment of Ultra High Temperature (UHT) milk processing and powdered milk plants under the investment of private and cooperative organizations. 110. I have arranged fifty percent subsidy on the purcha se of seedlings in order to promote commercial apple cultivation in himali districts in cluding Manang, Mustang and Jumla, Mission Okhar (Wall-nut) programme will be conducted in 9 districts including Solukhumbu, Jajarkot and Baitadi. Commercial lemon farming expansion programme will be conducted in 10 districts including Bhojpur, Kavre, Parbat, Syangja, Dang and Dadeldhura. 111. Programmes for improved shed construction, producti on of animal feed and forage development and expansion of pastureland will be op erated. Seven hundred thousand improved breeds of cows, buffaloes and goats will b e produced through artificial insemination mission at 468 local levels. Animals h aving high breeding value will be produced within the country. Artificial inseminatio n service will be provided free of cost. Nepal will be made self-reliant in vaccine producti on to control epidemics in cows, buffaloes and chickens. I have allocated necessary budget for animal health improvement programme. 112. The private sector will be encouraged and incentivized to build clean and well-organized model slaughterhouses in all provinces. Modern slau ghterhouses will be established in Biratnagar, Pokhara, Surkhet and Dhangadhi. 113. Investment in agricultural research will be increas ed. Hybrid varieties of food crops, vegetables and fruits through Nepal Agriculture Res earch Council will be developed. Collaboration will be made with the University to c onserve the seeds and breeds of indigenous species. Farmers will be encouraged to change their seeds every two years to increase agricultural productivity. I have allocate d Rs. 3 billion for Nepal Agricultural Research Council. 114. In order to provide theoretical and practical knowl edge of modern technology in agricultural production, one agricultural farm in e ach of the provinces including Chandradangi of Jhapa, Nawalpur of Sarlahi will be developed as a Center of Excellence and will be brought into operation within next two years. 115. Access to food and nutrition will be expanded to landless farmers, dalits and economically and socially backward classes and communities in or der to implement the government's resolution: No one remains hungry and no one dies of hunger . Hunger will be ended by providing food to the individuals, families, classe s and communities at risk of famine and food insecurity. 116. The capacity of the monitoring agencies will be enh anced to maintain the hygiene and quality of food items. The scope and area of food h ygiene testing will be expanded by developing the National Food and Feed Reference Lab oratory in accordance with international standards. Mobile service will be started in major agricultural wholesale and Haatbazaar (temporary markets) to test pesticide residues. 117. I have allocated Rs. 45.09 billion for Agriculture and Livestock Development Irrigation 118. Agricultural production and productivity will be increased by providing irrigation facilities in cultivable land through river diversion, canal, lift, ditch and underground irrigation system. I have allocated budget with priority for t he timely completion of under 15 construction projects, commencement of the construc tion of irrigation projects where feasibility study has been completed and for regula r maintenance of irrigation system. Irrigation facility will be expanded in additional 29.4 thousand hectares of cultivable land next year. 119. Irrigation facility will be provided to additional 2 thousand hectares of land from the west main canal of Sikta Irrigation Project. Irrigation facility will be expanded in additional 5 thousand hectares of land from the eastern section of the project by completing construction of 20 km main canal and 12 km branch canal next year. The entire construction work of Sikta Irrigation Project will be completed within next two years. For this, I have allocated Rs. 1.56 billion. 120. Irrigation facility will be provided to additional 3 thousand hectares of land by completing the construction work of 9 km main canal under the first phase of Rani-Jamara-Kulariya Irrigation Project within next year. Under the seco nd phase, construction of 15 km main and 5 km branch canals up to Kandra river of Lamki extension will be completed. Within the next 3 years, the entire work of this project w ill be completed, and irrigation facility will be provided to 20.3 thousand hectares of land. 4.7 MW electricity will be generated from the powerhouse under the project. I have allocated Rs. 2.35 billion for this project. 121. I have allocated Rs. 1.25 billion to provide irrigation facility to 2.90 thousand hectares of land by constructing 10 kilometers of main canal an d branch canal in Bramhadev Mandi area under the third phase of Mahakali Irrigation Project. I have allocated Rs. 1.44 billion for the construction of the remaining 8 km canal of the western section of Babai Irrigation Project. 122. I have allocated Rs. 1.61 billion for the construction of small, medium and large irrigation projects including Praganna, Badkapath, Bagmati, Pa lungtar and Greater Dang valley. These projects will provide irrigation facility to additional 400 hectares of cultivable land next year. 123. We have entered a new era of water resource utilization by adopting the technology of water diversion from one river to another through tunnels for its multi-purpose use including drinking water, irrigation and electricity. The ong oing river diversion projects will be completed on time. Irrigation facilities will be expanded into the potential areas of Terai lands from Jhapa to Kanchanpur by implementing river diversion projects. 124. Construction of headworks of Bheri-Babai Diversion Multipurpose Project will be completed in the coming fiscal year. Irrigation fac ilities will be expanded to additional 15 thousand hectares of land in Banke and Bardiya d istricts and construction of 48 MW powerhouse will be completed within next two years. I have allocated Rs. 3.07 billion for this project. I have provisioned budget to prepare DPR and start construction of Naumure Multipurpose River Diversion Project. 125. Tunnel construction work of Sunkoshi-Marin Multipur pose River Diversion Project that will lay down the foundation for economic transformation of the entire Province No. 2 will be expedited to provide irrigation facility in 122 tho usand hectares of cultivable land including Dhanusha, Mahottari, Sarlahi, Rautahat. C onstruction of headwork and power house will be started in the coming fiscal year. Upon completion of the project, construction of main and branch canals will be completed to prov ide irrigation facilities to the agricultural lands of the entire command area. The entire work of the project will be completed within four years. I have allocated Rs. 2.46 billion for this project. 16 126. Construction work of Tamor-Chisyang and Kali Gandaki-Tinau River Diversion projects will be started by preparing detailed project report, pr oject implementation modality and financing framework next year. I have allocated bud get to prepare detailed project report of Madi-Dang and West Seti-Kailali river diversion project. 127. Under the Prosperous Terai-Madhesh Irrigation Devel opment Programme, 5 thousand shallow tube wells and 200 deep tube-wells will be installed to expand irrigation facilities in 20 thousand hectares of cultivable land in 25 di stricts including Jhapa, Saptari, Udaypur, Chitwan, Nawalparasi East, Dang, Bardiya, Kanchanpur. I have allocated Rs. 2.34 billion for this project. 128. Under the Integrated Energy and Irrigation Special Programme, I have arranged necessary budget for the expansion of irrigation fa cilities in 600 hectares of cultivable land along the riverbanks including Sunkoshi, Trish uli, Kaligandaki, Rapti, Bheri, Karnali and Chamelia. 129. Ponds will be constructed with the involvement of l ocal level and community to provide irrigation facilities to the cultivable lands in th e hilly region. For this, funds will be transferred to the local level. River Training and Watershed Protection 130. River training programmes will be implemented for t he protection of human settlements and cultivable lands and for productive use through local level by land reclamation. I have allocated Rs. 3.91 billion for Kankai, Ratuwa, Kama la, Lalbakaiya, Banganga, West Rapti, Karnali and Mahakali River training programmes, 131. I have allocated budget to protect Bhadrapur of Jhapa, Beni of Myagdi, Dunai of Dolpa, Chainpur of Bajhang and Khalanga Bazaar of Darchula from river erosion. I have allocated budget for the construction of 115 km str ucture by continuing river training programmes including Mawa, Biring, Bakraha, Khando, Ratu, Lakhandehi, East Rapti, Tinau-Danav, Bhada and Mohana rivers under Janatako Tatabandha . Innovative and bioengineering technology will be used in river training and landslide management. 132. To protect Gaighat Bazaar, other settlements and cu ltivable land of Udayapur from the erosion of Triyuga river, eighty-four km embankment will be constructed within next three years. 133. I have allocated budget for feasibility study for c onstruction of canal by interconnecting Koshi, Gandaki, Karnali and their tributary system in Bhawar area of Chure Hills from Jhapa to Kanchanpur. I hope this will help in manag ing the irrigation system of Terai, giving continuity to the water cycle, promoting wat erways and aqua tourism and solving the problems of floods, inundation and river erosion in Terai. 134. Conservation of lake, pond and dam construction pro grammes will be implemented for the protection of reservoirs and expansion of irrigation facilities. I have allocated Rs. 270 million to conduct programmes under Rupa Taal Integrated Development Project. 135. Meteorological RADAR in Palpa and Udayapur and X-wind RADAR in Kathmandu valley will be installed for collecting weather informatio n. Weather Television channel will be operated. I have allocated budget to establish hydr ological and metrological stations in additional 30 places. 17 136. I have increased the budget to Rs. 31.86 billion for irrigation and river training sector. Land Management 137. The Government is committed to protect public and government lands. The investigation, identification and reclamation of illegally encroached public, government and Guthi lands will be expedited. All the lands acquired or purcha sed by the Government of Nepal, including the road and its right of way, will be allotted and registered in the name of the Government of Nepal within next fiscal year. 138. Identifying, collecting data, mapping, assessing accuracy and recording of landless dalits , landless squatters, exkamalaris , ex-kamaiyas , haruwa, charuwa and unplanned settlers will be made through Land Issue Resolving Commissio n and; landowner registration certificates will be distributed within next fiscal year. I have allocated Rs. 680 million for this purpose. 139. At least fifty branches of Bhumi Bank will be established in each province with co-financing of the Government of Nepal and local level and will be brought into operation within next fiscal year. Arrangements will be made to provide unutilized private, government, public and reclaimed land on lease to individuals, groups or organizations for commercial farming and processing of agricultural product. 140. Land use planning will be formulated at all local l evels employing land use maps based on geoinformation system for scientific classific ation and maximum utilization of land. I have arranged to provide additional grant as an inc entive to the local levels that implement land use planning. 141. Digital copy of all land related records will be ma de available through land record information management system. By expanding the services related to land administration based on electronic system in all Land Revenue Offices, I have made an arrangement for the service recipients so as to perform land admini stration related tasks including land registration and ownership transfer from homes. 142. Mero Kitta system will be implemented in all districts within next fiscal year to obtain the service related to land allotment map, field book a nd plot register digitally. Geoinformation system will be expanded to 40 offices in different districts. 143. I have allocated Rs. 430 million for completing the mapping of fifteen thousand square kilometers of Terai from Mechi to Narayani by conti nuing the use of latest LiDAR technology for geo-information collection, survey and mapping, Mapping for all parts of the country will be completed within next three years. Cooperatives and Poverty Alleviation 144. Cooperative sector will be developed as an important pillar of the economy. Cooperative organizations will be mobilized in financial access expansion, social and economic empowerment and productive sectors. Entrepreneurship development programmes will be implemented by involving landless, squatters, dalits and backward classes and communities in cooperatives. 145. Cooperatives will be encouraged for promotion of do mestic and smallscale industries based on local raw materials and storage, processing, packaging and marketing of local 18 products. I have arranged to provide concessional l oan to the cooperative organizations to develop value chain by processing the agricultural and livestock products. 146. Assistance will be provided to the cooperative orga nizations to establish agricultural market centers in partnership with the local level. A conditional grant will be provided to the local level for the utilization of warehouses w ith repair into operation for storing agricultural inputs that was previously belonged to Sajha Sahakari Sanstha for storing agricultural inputs. 147. I have arranged to provide subsidy through coopera tives for the purchase of seed, machinery and equipment required for cultivation of food crops, legumes, vegetables, fruit, tea, cardamom and coffee. Technical assistance and grants based on return will be provided for enhancing capacity and institutional s trengthening of cooperatives that expand employment opportunities. I have allocated b udget for strengthening the cooperative sector. 148. The distribution of identity cards to the poor households of all districts will be completed next year. All the services and facilities to be pr ovided by the government targeting the poor will be linked with this identity card. I have given continuity to the Bishweshwar with Poor Programme. 149. I have abolished the Poverty Alleviation Fund. Appr oximately thirty-two thousand community groups affiliated to the Fund will be tra nsformed into cooperatives. Poverty alleviation programme will be implemented by using Rs. 19 billion Revolving Fund mobilized by the group as a seed capital of the cooperatives. 150. I have allocated Rs. 8.21 billion for the Ministry of Land Management, Cooperatives and Poverty Alleviation. Forest Development 151. Entrepreneurship will be promoted by linking timber , non-timber and herbal related forest-based enterprises with employment and econom ic gain. National standard of sustainable forest management will be implemented to increase the contribution of forest sector to the economic prosperity of the country. 152. Under the President Chure-Terai Madhesh Conservatio n Programme, underground water will be replenished by constructing 200 ponds in Sh ivalik and Mahabharat areas. Soil erosion control programmes will be implemented in 1 64 river systems of Chure region. I have allocated Rs. 1.53 billion for this programme. 153. Commercial production, processing, certification an d marketing of high value plants and herbs including Bodhichitta, Rudraksha, Chiraito, Shrikhand, Pancha onle , which have potential for export, will be encouraged. Nurseries of plants and herbs will be developed based on geographical potentiality. I have arranged for herbal crops insurance and provide 50 percent subsidy in the premium amount. 154. Tourism infrastructure based on biodiversity and na tural beauty will be developed in National Parks, Reserves, Protected Areas, Intermed iate Areas, Boundaries, Botanical Gardens and Community Forests. In collaboration wit h the private sector, nature-based tourism infrastructure development programme will b e implemented in Kanchanpur, Bardiya, Chitwan, Nuwakot and Dolakha districts. 19 155. Construction work of National Zoological Garden und er construction at Suryabinayak of Bhaktapur and Bhanubhakta Zoological Garden at Tana hu will be completed. I have allocated budget for feasibility study to establish provincial level zoological gardens in all the provinces. 156. In order to reduce the conflict between human and w ildlife, the biological pathways, grasslands, boundaries, natural ponds and habitats in the national forests and protected areas will be protected. Accidental insurance will be provided to the citizens and employees living within the protected and intermedi ate areas to compensate for the damage caused by the attack of wild animals. 157. Private, cooperative and community organizations wi ll be encouraged to engage in commercial rearing of forest animals. Research center will be established for commercial cultivation of rare and valuable plants and herbs l ike Panchaole, Keshar (Saffron) and Yarsagumba . Endangered and rare wildlife such as tiger, one horned rhino, elephant, musk deer, crocodile, scaly ant eater ( Salak ) will be protected. 158. In order to expand employment and income generation opportunities, collective farming in forest areas and planting of agro-forest on priv ate land will be encouraged. Forest prosperity programme will be implemented in 50 loca l levels of Lumbini Province and Province No. 2. Environmental Protection 159. Fifteen million trees will be planted in Churia and Terai-Madhesh areas. Green city will be developed by planting fruit trees along the road side, residential area and open spaces of urban areas. Nepal Army, Nepal Police and Armed Police Force will also be mobilized for tree plantation and protection. 160. In order to reduce the environmental pollution caus ed by plastics; the production, import, sales and distribution as well as use of plastics l ess than 40 microns thickness has been completely banned from the upcoming mid-July. I hav e arranged to use cotton, jute or paper bags instead of plastic bags in all business establishments including shopping malls and department stores. If the industry producing plastic bags or seats with less than forty microns thickness replaces the parts of the old machinery with new materials, the additional investment made by the industry will be provided as capital grant. 161. The use of electric vehicles will be encouraged to control the adverse effects of environmental pollution on human health and promote clean and environment friendly development. A strategic plan will be formulated an d implemented by 2031 AD. to replace the light vehicles powered by fossil fuels by electric vehicles. For this, a task force including experts will be formed to provide suggest ions regarding the policies to be adopted, exemptions and facilities and infrastructu re development. I have arranged to give exemption of renewal fee and road construction and maintenance fee for 5 years if the vehicles operated from fossil fuels are converted into electric vehicles. 162. I have allocated budget to implement carbon emissio ns reduction programme in 13 districts of Terai-Madhesh including Rautahat, Bara , Parsa, Chitwan, Banke, Bardiya, Kailali and Kanchanpur. The capacity of the local community will be enhanced to minimize the adverse effects of climate change. 20 163. Air quality measurement centers will be established in Ilam, Rajbiraj, Jomsom, Dipayal and other places. Regional standards related to air , noise and water pollution will be updated and implemented. 164. I have allocated Rs. 14.13 billion to the Ministry of Forest and Environment. Tourism Promotion 165. Nepal will be developed as an attractive, scenic an d safe tourist destination by utilizing the tourism possibilities obtained through unique n atural beauty, abundant biodiversity and incomparable socio-cultural diversity. 166. An integrated tourism infrastructure development pr ogramme will be implemented in collaboration with the private sector in order to d iversify and expand tourism sector. Tourism infrastructure will be constructed in the spots including Sandakpur, Dhanushadham, Indrasarovar, Panchase, Niglihawa, Kupinde Daha and Bhadagaun. I have given continuity to the reconstruction work of Aani Gumba in Muktinath area and Pindasthan in Kagweni area. 167. Trekking routes, hiking destinations and cycling trails will be constructed at feasible places near Kathmandu valley. An environment friendly bicycle circuit will be constructed around Fewa Lake. A detailed project report will be prepared for the construction of Himalayan Foot Trail from Darchula to Taplejung. Land will be provided on lease to the private sector to promote tourism by constructing hotels, m otels, resorts including hill stations in feasible places of Chure and Mahabharat range. 168. I have allocated budget to develop naturally important places including Rara lake, Shey Phoksundo lake, Khaptad as an attractive tourist destination. 169. Trekking routes will be constructed in the areas like Lower Dolpa, Simikot of Humla, Ruby valley of Dhading, Rolwaling of Dolakha and Olangch unggola of Taplejung. An integrated tourism information system including GPS tracking will be operationalized for the safety and rescue of outbound tourists for trekking and mountaineering. 170. Important lakes including Maipokhari of Ilam, Barju lake of Sunsari, Jagdishpur lake of Kapilvastu, Satyavati lake of Palpa, Syarpu lake of Rukum and Beheda Baba lake of Kailali will be developed as tourist destinations by their conservation and beautification. 171. Adventure tourism including mountaineering, bungee jumping, rock climbing, rafting, paragliding, zipline, kayaking will be promoted. National and international investors will be attracted to invest in the field of adventure tourism. 172. Agro-tourism, eco-tourism, Himalayan-yoga tourism, high altitude sports tourism, educational tourism and conference tourism will be promoted with the coordination and cooperation of local level and private sector. I have allocated Rs. 590 million in order to continue the tourism infrastructure development pro gramme operated in 216 places in cost-sharing of province and local level. 173. Historical forts including Simraungadh, Makwanpurgadhi, Sindhuligadhi and Jitgadhi will be conserved and developed. A detailed study will be conducted to build a circuit in the religious-cultural and wetland areas. 174. I have allocated Rs. 27.47 billion to the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation. 21 Industrial Development and Investment Promotion 175. Nepal will be developed as an attractive and safe i nvestment destination by creating favorable business environment to increase the cont ribution of industry sector in the national economy. The process of industrialization will be intensified by developing investment friendly industrial administration, preferential treatment, protective tax system, good labor relations and modern infrastructure. 176. Made in Nepal and Make in Nepal campaigns will be launched in collaboration with the private sector for mass production, marketing, use and export promotion of domestic goods. Export will be promoted having self-reliant in the products including cement, medicine, iron rods, furniture and shoes. 177. Production based on local raw materials and labor w ill be increased by protecting cottage, small and medium enterprises. An arrangeme nt will be made for organizing virtual trade shows for market promotion of the products of such industries. 178. Sheep and mountain goat ( Chyangra ) rearing will be encouraged through wool mission at 33 local levels of 22 high mountainous and hilly districts. I have arranged to set up wool processing plants in the mountainous districts of G andaki and Karnali Province. Exports will be encouraged by operating meat industry in the Himalayan region. 179. The companies producing and assembling the world's top 10 brand of electric vehicles will be attracted to set up industries in Nepal. Employment will be generated through the development of backward linkages by locally produci ng various types of accessories to be used in vehicles. In addition to tax incentive, the government will provide land required for such companies on lease without any charge. 180. Infrastructure of industrial zone in Damak of Jhapa , Mayurdhap of Makwanpur, Motipur of Rupandehi, Nauwasta of Banke, Lamki of Kailali a nd Daiji of Kanchapanpur will be completed within next two years. Feasibility study for establishing industrial zone in Murtiya of Sarlahi, Chintutar of Tanahu, Laxmipur o f Dang and Chaurase of Surkhet will be done. The role and participation of the private sector in the management and operation of the industrial sector will be kept on increasing. International investors will be attracted in the construction and management of infrastructure in the industrial zone. 181. Ongoing construction of Special Economic Zone in Pa nchkhal of Kavrepalanchok will be completed and brought into operation. Feasibility s tudy to establish Special Economic Zone in Amarduwa of Sunsari, Haraiya of Kailali and Rajapur of Bardiya will be done. I have allocated Rs. 520 million for infrastructure development of Special Economic Zone. 182. I have allocated Rs. 920 million for continuation of construction of infrastructure related to industrial village started at the local level. 183. Ongoing Construction of SAARC Handicraft Building at Tripureshwor, Kathmandu will be completed this year. An international exhibition ce nter will be constructed in Kathmandu valley in partnership with the Federation of Export Entrepreneurs Nepal. The exhibition centre operated in Biratnagar will be upgraded. 184. Incentives will be provided to the private sector f or the establishment and operation of industries of comparative advantage. The process of repatriation of foreign investment will be simplified. The services to the investors w ill be provided electronically through single window service center. 22 185. Opportunities brought by the industrial revolution of the fourth generation including digital and artificial intelligence technology will be utilized. Laws related to e-commerce will be formulated. 186. Additional concessions and incentives will be provided to the industries to be established in the industrial zone, special economic zone and i ndustrial village. In order to establish industry in the industrial sector, land will be mad e available on lease at minimum price and lease period will be extended. While establishing industries in the industrial zone and special economic zone, industries other than enviro nmentally sensitive will not require environmental impact assessment. 187. Arrangements will be made to relocate the industri es established outside the industrial zone to the special economic zone. Arrangements for the industry established in the special economic zone will be made to sell 40 percent of the products in the domestic market for 3 years from the date of initial production. The lease amount to be paid by the industries in the special economic zone will be reduced. 188. In line with the objective of building a pollution free and clean capital, the industries being operated in the Kathmandu valley will be relocated to the Mayurdhap Industrial Area of Makwanpur. I have arranged to provide free land to the relocated industries for 10 years and levy only 1 percent customs duty on machinery/e quipment and their parts to be imported by the industries. The electricity demand charges of these industries will be fully exempted for five years. 189. Bhagat Sarvajit Silpa Upliftment and Development Programme will be condu cted in all provinces to make commercial and to expand employme nt opportunities and scope by protecting, promoting and modernizing traditional s kills, arts and professions of dalit community. Capital grants will be provided for skil l development and market promotion by declaring special pocket-areas-based profession, products and location. A separate structure will be set up for the implementation of this programme. I have allocated necessary budget for this purpose. 190. Seventy-five percent of the construction cost will be reimbursed if the access road and transmission line required for star hotels, cement and iron industries are constructed by the investors themselves. 191. Exploration, survey and excavation of iron, precio us metals, precious stones, petroleum products and other minerals will be started. I have allocated necessary amount to start the work related to geological mapping of mines and mineral exploration. 192. Commercial production of iron will be started from Dhauwadi mine next year. Petroleum exploration in Chupra of Dailekh will be completed within two years. Necessary arrangements will be made for the protection, promotion and use of radioactive material including uranium in Lomanthang of Mustang. 193. After feasibility study, excavation will be commenced of phosphorite in Baitadi, magnesite in Udayapur, copper mine in Okhaldhunga Khanidanda and Tanahu Aanbukhaireni, quartz in Jajarkot and precious stones in Rubi valley of Dhading. In collaboration with the private sector, laboratories and processing centers for precious and semi-precious stones will be established in Kathmandu and Surkhet. 194. The micro enterprise development for poverty allevi ation programme will be expanded at all local levels by increasing their institutional capacity. 23 195. I have allocated Rs. 2.77 billion for the construction of industrial infrastructure. Commerce 196. Additional incentives will be provided to the priva te sector to promote export with internationally recognized quality certification by processing, packaging and branding of eco-friendly products with unique identity of Nepal including cardamom, tea, coffee, ginger and herbs. 197. Foreign investment will be attracted in export-orie nted industries. The private sector will be encouraged to export quality drinking water of the Himalayan region by branding it. Additional income tax exemption will be provided to the foreign investors exporting 100 percent of their production to their own country. 198. Bonded warehouse facility will be provided to the private sector to establish and operate export house to increase the export of goods produced by small and medium enterprises. Production and export of readymade garments, pashmina, carpets and exportable goods based on jute, silk and cotton will be promoted. 199. Trade deficit will be reduced by exporting mine based stones, gravel and sand based on environmental impact assessment. For the transporta tion of mine based construction materials intended to export, I have arranged to exempt import duty for the construction of ropeway from manufacturing unit to the point of export. 200. Arrangements will be made to provide additional sub sidy to the exporters exporting goods more in quantity and value than the previous fiscal year. Export subsidy will be extended to the producer level. 201. Electricity consumption will be increased to reduce trade deficit by import substitution of petroleum products. Arrangements will be made to us e domestic cement and iron on the roads to be constructed on those areas where there is regular water flow, slope terrain and that require frequent maintenance due to heavy load pressure. 202. Safeguard, anti-dumping and countervailing laws will be implemented for the protection of domestic industries. In addition to discouraging the import of luxury goods, the import of health and environmentally hazardous substances will be controlled. 203. International market of collective trademarks inclu ding Chyangra Pashmina , Felt, Nepal Herbs, Everest Big Cardamom, Nepal Tea, Himalayan Nepali Carpet and Nepal Coffee will be promoted. I have arranged to bear the colle ctive trademark renewal fee by the Government of Nepal as well as to waive the fee for organic certification. 204. Trade treaties with the neighboring countries will be reviewed. Trade with third countries will be expanded by making maximum use of transit f acilities provided by friendly countries India and China. Trade Infrastructure 205. Construction of inter-country trade infrastructure will be expedited. The construction of integrated check post in Nepalgunj will be complete d and brought into operation next year. Construction of integrated check post in Bhai rahawa will be commenced soon. Integrated check posts on the Nepal-India border wi ll be connected with the railways. I 24 have arranged to construct a parking yard for 2,000 cargo vehicles at Belahiya border point. 206. Construction of dry port at Timure, Rasuwa will be completed next year. After completing preparatory works for dry ports in Olangchungola of Taplejung, Kimathanka of Sankhuwasabha, Korola of Mustang, Yari of Humla and Dodhara-Chandani of Kanchakanpur, construction will be commenced. 207. Container freight station under construction at Cho bhar, Kathmandu will be brought into operation from next fiscal year. An arrangement of customs clearance at Chobhar, Kathmandu will be made without any hindrance for al l types of cargo vehicles destined for Kathmandu after having them sealed at the Nepal entry point. Supply Management 208. National standard policy will be formulated. The su pply system will be made fair and competitive by eliminating market monopolies and ca rtels. Market monitoring will be made regular and effective in collaboration with th e agencies involved in market monitoring and organizations actively working for the benefit of consumers. 209. I have allocated Rs. 760 million for continuation of the subsidy provided for transportation of food crops and salt in remote areas including Karnali. 210. Storage capacity will be increased to meet the dema nd of petroleum products for a minimum of three months. The work of laying petroleum pipeline from Panitanki to Charali via Kankadvitta and from Amalekhgunj to Lothar will be started and brought into operation within three years. 211. Salt production and distribution with the participa tion of private sector will be made competitive in order to make the supply of iodized salt accessible, qualitative and affordable. 212. I have allocated Rs. 13.58 billion for the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Supplies. Respected Sisters and Brothers, Now I would like to present the programmes and allocation of Social Sectors including Education and Water Supply Quality Education 213. Access to education for all citizens will be ensure d by making education, the foundation of human capital formation, qualitative, viable, oc cupational and technology-friendly. A conducive environment for learning will be created through efficient educated human resource development and formulation of knowledge a nd skill-oriented curriculum. Disaster-sensitive and disability-friendly educatio nal infrastructure will be constructed. A result-oriented educational evaluation system will be adopted. The arrangement will be made to provide grant based on the educational resu lt for the promotion of quality education of community schools. 214. President Educational Reform Programme will be focu sed on building infrastructure of educational sectors. Building and infrastructure su itable for alternative learning methods including classrooms, laboratories, libraries, drinking water and toilets will be constructed 25 at community schools and colleges at all levels wit hin three years. The construction of the physical infrastructure of one thousand five hundred schools and colleges will be initiated next year based on priority. I believe that the implementation of this programme will have significant contribution on the revolutionary chang e in the construction of educational infrastructure and socio-economic transformation including social justice through production of appropriate human resource in-country context. I have allocated Rs. 10 billion for the President Educational Reform Programme. 215. Compulsory and free basic education will be ensured in the coming academic session by increasing the enrollment rate to 100 percent. Trad itional education methods such as Gurukul, Madrasa and Gumba will be included in the formal education system. 216. A minimum monthly remuneration of Rs. 15 thousand w ill be provided to the teachers of Primary Child Development Center and school staff as determined by the Government of Nepal. The Government of Nepal has increased curren t monthly remuneration to Rs. 8 thousand. Arrangements will be made to cover the re st amount by the local levels if that appears to be less than the minimum remuneration. F or this, I have allocated Rs. 5.55 billion. 217. I have allocated Rs. 8.73 billion to continue mid-day-meal programme for all the children up to grade 5 of public schools to improve their nutritional level and to solve the problem of school dropout. Three million and five hundred thousand children across the country will be benefitted from this programme. 218. The number of teacher position will be adjusted bas ed on teacher-student ratio. Excess numbers of teachers at the primary level will be adjusted to the secondary level and the residual will be repealed. I have allocated Rs. 2.66 billion for additional grant to manage Science, Mathematics and English subject teachers in proportion to the number of students in secondary level schools. 219. With a view to provide a free broadband internet service at all community schools within next two years, such service will be extended to 60 percent of community schools across the country by the end of coming fiscal year. 220. An alternative means of teaching-learning action pl an will be implemented effectively. I have arranged for the development of a learning portal and operation of the educational channel through Nepal Television targeting the students who are unable to attend school. I have allocated Rs. 1.20 billion for the implementation of an alternative teaching-learning action plan. 221. Before the commencement of academic session, textbooks will be printed and distributed free of cost. The children studying up to grade 9 in public schools will be distributed color textbooks. I have allocated Rs. 4.79 billion to dis tribute textbooks to all students and sanitary pads to girls up to grade 12 without any charge. 222. Secondary level residential schools will be operate d in 13 Himali districts including Taplejung, Rasuwa, Mustang, Mugu and Darchula for the children who are from minorities at risk, on the verge of extinction, marginalized communities and disadvantaged group. 223. I have made budget arrangement for scholarships to the students of the communities economically, socially marginalized and on the verg e of extinction including Chepang, Raute , Badi, Majhi, Musahar; disables, martyrs' families, conflict victims, families deceased due to COVID-19 infection and HIV/AIDS infected chi ldren in order to protect the child’s 26 right to education. I have arranged to ensure free education and provide scholarships up to higher education in all subjects to dalit, Muslim and ex-kamalari female students. 224. Arrangements will be made for blind children to get education with the help of modern technology including Braille textbooks. One special school with accommodation facility will be established and operated in each province for the students with intellectual disability. 225. Health awareness will be increased in schools by ad opting One School One Health Worker policy. At the beginning of each academic session, compulsory basic health checkup arrangement including eye and ear check-up of all students will be made. 226. The secondary level students will be encouraged to participate in extracurricular activities including Nepal Scout, Junior Red Cross Circle, Spo rts and Music in addition to regular studies. 227. The University Grants Commission will be developed as a competent and capable body to test national merit, set standards, monitor as w ell as regulate the universities. Grants provided to universities will be made performance b ased. I have increased the grant to be distributed by the University Grants Commission to Rs. 18.34 billion. 228. The concept of 70 percent technical and 30 percent general education will be implemented. An engineering college will be establi shed at Jaleshwor, Mahottari. Constituent campuses of Agriculture and Forest University will be expanded. 229. Madan Bhandari Polytechnic University will be brought into operation within the next two years. I have allocated the budget to commence the construction of the university infrastructure next year. 230. I have allocated budget to commence the constructio n of infrastructure of Yogamaya Ayurvedic University with a view to bring it into operation within two years. 231. Necessary facilitation will be provided for the est ablishment and operation of the proposed Nepal University. 232. A medical college which is currently under construction will be broug ht into operation at Geta in Far-Western Province next year. Constructio n work of Butwal Medical College will be started by preparing detailed project repor t. Land acquisition and detailed project report will be prepared for the establishme nt of medical college at Bardibas of Province 2 and Surkhet of Karnali Province. 233. University education will be made research based. I have allocated the budget to CEDA, CNAS, CERID and RECAST under Tribhuvan University t o develop as leading research institutions. 234. Technical schools will be operated at all local lev els to develop skilled human resources based on local specialty and needs. Conditional gra nt will be provided for the establishment of technical school in the affiliatio n of Council for Technical Education and Vocational Training and under the management of the concerned local level. The Council for Technical Education and Vocational Training wil l be focused on curriculum development, production of skilled instructors, qua lity assessment, learning certification and regulation. 235. Budget will be provided to strengthen the History Amendment Committee, which is working to establish validation in the geographical , political, cultural and social aspects 27 applying the method of study, exploration and disco very. UNESCO village will be constructed at Jagdol, Kathmandu. Science and Technology 236. The scientific awareness will be enhanced by linkin g society with science and production with technology and innovation. Science, Technology and Innovation Council will be formed to proceed the work related to science and technology in an integrated and coordinated manner. 237. Madan Bhandari University of Science and Technology, established to produce world class human resources in the field of science and technology, will be brought into operation next year. Infrastructure construction work of engineering faculty will be completed at Chitlang, Makwanpur. Construction work will be commenced by preparing de tailed project report to build infrastructure at Panchkhal in Kavre. I ha ve allocated Rs. 1.55 billion for this purpose. 238. Nepal Academy of Science and Technology will be res tructured. B.P. Koirala Memorial Science Museum will be developed as B.P. Koirala National Science Park. 239. I have allocated Rs. 180.04 billion to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology. Culture 240. Traditional culture and archeological heritage, by preserving and promoting, will be presented to the world as soft power. The remaining work of Lumbini Development master plan will be completed within two years. A comprehe nsive Lumbini Development master plan including Lumbini, Tilaurakot, Ramgram and Dev daha areas will be prepared by renowned international planners. I have allocated Rs. 1.50 billion for this. 241. Comprehensive Pashupati Area Development master pla n will be formulated and implemented. I have allocated Rs. 350 million for the construction of infrastructure including retrofitting of Pashupatinath temple. 242. The process to list Janaki Mandir and Tilaurakot in the list of World Heritage Site will be proceeded. In order to develop Janakpur as a religi ous, cultural and tourist destination, a religious conference including Ashtabakra Shastrartha will be organized every year. I have allocated budget for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhyapuri, Chitwan. 243. I have allocated budget for the protection and development of religious places including Birat area, Ramjanki Temple, Devghat, Bhairabsthan, Ruru and Khaptad. 244. I have allocated budget to prepare the master plan for the protection and development of important religious tourist destinations includi ng Tripurasundari of Baitadi, Badimalika of Bajura, Chhayanath of Humla, Chandannath of Juml a, Kankrebihar of Surkhet, Swargadwari of Pyuthan, Muktinath of Mustang, Gadhi mai of Bara, Chhinnamasta of Saptari, Halesi of Khotang, Baraha Kshetra of Sunsari and Pathivara of Taplejung. 245. Ongoing construction work of the National Cultural Museum in Kirtipur, Kathmandu that reflects the way of life, custom, art, culture and traditions of different castes and languages will be completed within two years. Provincial museums will be established and developed in each province in coordination and coop eration of the provincial governments. 28 246. Feasibility study of Academy Village in Kathmandu v alley will be conducted for the infrastructure development of Nepal Academy, Nepal Academy of Music and Drama, Nepal Academy of Fine Arts and Nepal Academy of Children. Youth and Sports 247. Through capacity enhancement, youths will be made p atriotic, disciplined and entrepreneurs. Youth targeted programmes will be co nducted for their meaningful participation in economic, social and cultural transformation of the country. 248. Additional 12 thousand youths will be made self-employed by providing loan along with technical and vocational skill through Youth and Small Entrepreneur Self-Employment Fund. I have arranged to provide 50 percent subsidy on credit guarantee premium of the loan provided to youth and small entrepreneurs through Youth Self-Employment Fund. 249. Youths will be mobilized in social activities inclu ding disaster risk mitigation, environment protection, relief, rescue and awareness enhancemen t by organizing them through National Youth Council. Leading role of the youths will be established in the process of economic, social and cultural transformation. Youth innovation centers will be established in all provinces in the initiation of National Youth Council. 250. The students of the age of five to twenty-five will be made active in nation building through development of discipline, self-reliance and the spirit of volunteerism by involving them in Scout. Nepal Scout will be expanded to 13 thousand schools in the next year. 251. I have made arrangement for the development of spor ts infrastructure, organization of sports competition, sports training and; provision of incentives to talent players to enhance the nation's pride in the global arena, by developi ng and expanding sports from the community level thereby preparing physically and me ntally healthy, capable and disciplined citizen. 252. The construction of Madan Bhandari stadium having i nternational standard will be commenced in Damak with an aim to bring it into operation within two years. 253. I have allocated necessary budget for the completio n of cricket stadium construction in Baidyanathpur of Morang, Mulpani of Kathmandu, Bhairahawa of Rupandehi, Lamahi of Dang, Nepalgunj of Banke and Mahendranagar of Kanchanpur. Construction of Pokhara stadium will be completed next year. 254. I have arranged for the availability of concessional loan to the players, retired from active sport life, in order to operate their business. 255. The construction of Provincial stadium will be init iated in Dhangadi, Birendranagar, Nepalgunj, Janakpurdham and Itahari. Sports infrastructure will be constructed in all local levels. I have allocated budget for the construction of sports village in 168 local levels in the next year. 256. I have allocated necessary budget for the construct ion of high-altitude sports centres in Solukhumbu, Sindhupalchowk, Manang, Mustang and Jumla. 257. Ninth National Game will be organized next year. Th e games that are potential for winning international medal will be identified and the players will be encouraged. Nepal's participation will be increased in international competitions. 29 258. Feasibility study for international sports school will be completed to develop Nepal as an excellent destination for the sports tourism. 259. I have allocated Rs. 2.74 billion for the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Clean Drinking Water for All 260. Access to basic drinking water and sanitation serv ices will be ensured to all citizens by next year. Access to quality drinking water service will be expanded by implementing the concept of ek ghar ek dhara (one house one tap ). The capacity of the consumer committees will be enhanced for sustainable management of drinking water. 261. Under the second phase of Melamchi Drinking Water Project, construction of infrastructures including tunnel will be commenced in the coming fi scal year to add 340 million liters of drinking water daily from Larke and Yangri rivers to the existing system. The construction of this project will be completed within three year s. I have allocated Rs. 3.51 billion for Melamchi Drinking Water Project. 262. Significant improvement will be made in the drinkin g water distribution system of Kathmandu valley. In the first phase, water from Melamchi river will be distributed to 110 thousand households by extending 113 kilometers of new distribution lines from the four bulk distribution systems which are under construct ion. In the second phase, the pipeline will be extended to other areas outside ring road i ncluding Kirtipur, Pepsicola, Jorpati, Bhaktapur. I have allocated Rs. 4.79 billion for th e improvement of the drinking water distribution system. 263. The project will be developed so as to supply drink ing water to the big cities of TeraiMadhesh and Inner Madhesh from the under-constructi on river diversion projects. In the first phase, feasibility study of drinking water supply from Sunkoshi-Marin River Diversion Project in Siraha, Dhanusha, Mahottari, Sarlahi, Ra utahat, Bara and Parsa districts and from Bheri-Babai Diversion Project in Banke and Bardiya districts will be carried out. 264. I have abolished the provision of requiring deposit one percent of the cost in advance by the consumers while starting the construction of dr inking water project targeting rural areas. I have fully exempted the electricity charge and demand fee used in the drinking water projects operated by the consumer group. 265. Water recharge programme will be implemented to maintain the drinking water surface at a minimum level. Sustainable measures will be ta ken to recharge the depleting water level in the Terai-Madhesh. Conventional water sour ces including dhunge dhara (stone spouts), dug wells and ponds will be conserved in 30 places of Kathmandu valley. 266. I have allocated budget for the operation, in colla boration with the province and local level, of drinking water projects which are under construction and Terai-Madhesh centered arsenic free drinking water projects. 267. I have allocated Rs. 3.66 billion for the completi on of lift drinking water projects in Aangnamauwa of Panchthar, Haleshi of Khotang, Rakat hum of Ramechhap, Timal of Kavre, Lamidanda of Dhading, Biramkali of Gorkha, B artung of Palpa, Sharada of Salyan, Chulimalika of Kalikot, Sarukot of Mugu and other places. 268. I have allocated 2.68 billion for the completion of drinking water projects under construction in co-financing in Pathibhara of Taple jung, Chainpur of Sankhuwasabha, 30 Mangarh of Morang, Okhaldhunga Bazaar of Okhaldhunga, Harnamadi of Makwanpur, Bayarghari of Syangja and Patan Drinking Water Proj ect of Baitadi. Water distribution will be started in Pokhara and Nepalgunj from respe ctive drinking water projects in the coming fiscal year. I have allocated necessary budget for the completion of Jhumsa Khola Drinking Water Project. 269. I have allocated Rs. 3.29 billion for regular maintenance of drinking water project systems being operated at federal, province and local levels. 270. Kodku, Dhobighat and Sallaghari sewage treatment pl ants in Kathmandu valley will be brought into operation. Construction of sewage trea tment plants will be completed in Damak, Janakpur, Birgunj, Nepalgunj and eight other cities having high population density. 271. Garbage processing and sewerage construction as well as sanitation programme will be conducted in collaboration with the province and lo cal level. Public toilets will be constructed along the highways, in public places and in all wards of urban areas. 272. I have allocated Rs. 43.54 billion for the Ministry of Water Supply. Respected Sisters and Brothers, Now, I would like to present programmes and allocat ion in physical infrastructure sector including Road, Hydropower and Housing. Road Infrastructure Development 273. Quality transport infrastructure will be developed to facilitate movement, strengthen markets interconnection and production linkage. Exp ress ways, tunnels, high bridges and flyovers will be constructed to reduce travel time and cost making maximum two hours of travel time between two major cities. I have arrang ed to classify all the roads with GIS mapping. 274. The East-West Highway will be expanded to four-lane with safety standards. Expansion work of Kanchanpur-Kamala, Kamala-Dhalkebar-Pathalaiya, and Narayangadh-Butwal sections will be accelerated. The construction work of Kakadvitta-Inaruwa, PathalaiyaNarayangadh, Butwal-Kohalpur and Kohalpur-Banwasa sections will be commenced after completing detailed design. Service lanes, under passes and flyovers in densely settlement area, tunnel in Chure region and wildlife tunnels in forest areas will be constructed. I have allocated Rs. 15.34 billion for this purpose. 275. Pushpalal Highway will be expanded to four lanes an d constructed as the backbone of the development of Mid-Hill region. In order to red uce the distance of highways, redrawing, use of tunnel technology and high bridges will be constructed after completing its feasibility study. I have allocated Rs. 8.13 billion for it. 276. The construction of Chatara-Hetauda section of Mada n Bhandari Highway will be completed within the next fiscal year. The construc tion work of Shantinagar-Dharan and Bhedabari-Dhuliyabit, Surkhet section will be comme nced. The construction of the remaining sections will be initiated after the completion of mapping and detailed project report. I have allocated Rs. 3.20 billion for it. 31 277. The construction of Postal Highway will be complete d by next year. The bridge construction of Ratuwa, Biring, Kankai, Kamala, Bagmati, Balan, Danda and Kandra river will be completed. The sections belong to National Conservation Area of Makwanpur and Chitwan will be completed with further re-alignment of the highway. I have allocated Rs. 6.39 billion for Postal Highway. 278. The construction of Kathmandu-Terai Madhesh Fast Tr ack will be accelerated. The construction of tunnel roads and elevated bridges under the Fast Track will be commenced next year. I have allocated Rs. 8.15 billion for th e construction of Kathmandu-Terai Fast Track. 279. I have allocated Rs. 7 billion for upgrading Siddha rth Highway and Kohalpur-Surkhet Highway to dedicated double lane. I have allocated Rs. 7.27 billion for upgrading Nagdhunga-Mungling section of Prithvi Highway and w idening of Anbukhaireni-Pokhara road into four-lane. 280. I have allocated Rs. 2.66 billion for the completio n of remaining sections under the programme of connecting and expansion to four-lane from East-West Highway to southern border linking the headquarter of 18 districts of Terai-Madhesh. 281. I have allocated Rs. 1.13 billion to upgrade and ex pand the Dhulikhel-Dolalghat-Kodari section of Araniko Highway. Galchhi-Syafrubesi-Rasu wagadi and Kathmandu-Bidur roads will be upgraded to dedicated double lane. I have allocated budget for the construction and improvements of access road to Ola ngchunggola, Kimathanka, Lamabagar, Larke, Korala, Hilsa, Yari and Tinker. 282. The construction of North-South corridor will be expedited. I have allocated Rs. 6.50 billion to initiate the construction of Deurali-Bhaise sect ion of Mechi corridor, ChataraOlangchunggola section of Tamor corridor, KhadbariKimathanka section of Koshi corridor, Trishuli-Syafrubesi-Rasuwagadi section of Trishuli corridor, Kaligandaki corridor, Tikapur-Sanfe section of Seti Highway. 283. Surkhet-Khulalu section of Karnali Highway will be upgraded to two-lane. NagmaGamgadhi road will be upgraded. I have allocated Rs. 1.20 billion for it. Simikot of Humla will be linked with national highway network in the next fiscal year. 284. Jajarkot-Dunai section of Bheri Corridor will be upgraded. Track opening work of DunaiTinje Dho section will be commenced next fiscal year. I have allocated Rs. 610 million for it. 285. I have allocated Rs. 1.03 billion to expedite the c onstruction of BrahmadevmandiJhulaghat-Darchula Khalanga-Tinkar road of Mahakali corridor. 286. The construction of 3 hundred bridges will be compl eted next year. Construction of four lane bridge at Mahakali river connecting Dodhara-Ch andani and Indian border will be completed. I have allocated Rs. 11.10 billion for the construction of bridges. 287. Ten potential bridges including Koshi, Narayani, Ra pti of East West Highway will be replaced by attractive signature bridge. Renowned i nternational consultants will be involved in designing these bridges and preparing their detailed project report. 288. A study taskforce including experts will be formed to establish the National Highways Authority for determining the standards, drawing, d esign, construction, maintenance, use 32 of alternative instruments of potential investment, mobilization of financial resources and recording of roads and bridges within the jurisdiction of the federal government. 289. Under the second phase of expansion of Kathmandu va lley ring road, construction of Kalanki to Maharaganj section will be started and c ompleted within two years. The construction of Maharajgunj-Dhobikhola-Chabahil-Tilganga section will be commenced by completing its detail feasibility study and project report. Construction of flyovers at Gwarko, Satdobato and Ekantkuna chowk of ring road will be commenced. I have allocated Rs. 2.64 billion for the expansion of ring road. Public Transport 290. Transport service will be made safe, reliable and t echnology based. Electronic driving license will be issued. All the provinces will distribute embossed number marked with radio frequency to all registered vehicles across the country. GPS will be installed in cargo and other passengers' vehicles. E-ticketing will be iss ued in public transport. Public transport operation will be made systematic by establishing K athmandu Valley Transport Development Authority. 291. A convenient and quality transport service will be provided to the passengers by promoting competition in transport service operatio n. Arrangements will be made to transfer the fixed assets owned by the former Trans port Entrepreneurs Committee to the converted transport companies. 292. I have made arrangement to provide additional grant s as incentive if large capacity electric buses in major urban areas of the country including Kathmandu valley, BirtamodBhadrapur, Itahari-Biratnagar, Dhalkebar-Janakpur, Pokhara-Damauli, ButwalBhairahawa-Lumbini, Kohalpur-Nepalgunj, Attariya-Dh angadi are operated in partnership with province and local level. Arrangements will be made to operate at least one hundred electric buses in Kathmandu valley in t he next fiscal year through Sajha Yatayat . 293. In order to increase the use of electric vehicles, 5 hundred charging stations, terminal buildings and other infrastructures will be constru cted in different places of the country including Kathmandu valley in participation with private sector in the coming fiscal year. Tunnel Road 294. The country has entered the era of tunnels with the commencement of tunnel road construction at Nagdhunga on the Prithvi Highway. Modern tunnel road is not only a dream for us; it has been turning into reality. The tunnel is shortening our journey, prolonged due to geographical difficulties. Travel cost is decreasing. The use of tunnel technology will be adopted with due importance in the construction of roads in future. 295. The construction of tunnel from Nagdhunga, Kathmand u to Sisnekhola, Dhading will be expedited and brought into operation within two yea rs. I have allocated Rs. 9.85 billion for this project. 296. I have allocated budget for the commencement of tun nel road construction next year at Siddhababa-Dhobhan section of Sidhhartha Highway, L amabagar-Lapche of Dolakha and Dharan-Leuti section of Dharan-Dhankuta Road. 33 297. I have allocated Rs. 1.80 billion for the construct ion of tunnel road at Tinkune-Jadibuti section in order to manage traffic congestion of Koteswor, Kathmandu. 298. The construction of Tokha-Chhahare-Gurju Bhanjyang, Betrawati-Syafrubeshi, KhurkotChiyabari and Thankot-Chitlang tunnel road will be commenced next year after the preparation of detailed project report. 299. Feasibility study will be carried out and detailed project report will be prepared for the tunnel construction in Majhimtar-Shaktikhor of Prit hvi Highway, Hemja-Nayapool of Pokhara-Baglung Highway, Dumling-Wangsing of Chepan g Highway, DumkibasBardaghat of East-West Highway, Babai-Chhinchu of K ohalpur-Surkhet Highway, Kapase-Siyakot of Surkhet-Dailekh Road, Prabhas-Jor te of Palpa-Tamghas road and Bipinnagar-Khutiya-Dipayal section. Railway 300. Modern technology-based railway network will be dev eloped in the country. Railway service will be operated next year in Jayanagar-Jan akpur-KurtaBijalpura and Jogbani-Biratnagar section. Construction of Bardibas station will be commenced. 301. Feasibility study will be completed for the operati on of metro rail and city cable-car in Kathmandu valley by hiring international consultant. 302. Track belt construction of Bardibas-Nijgadh section of east west railway will be completed. The construction Kankadvitta-Inaruwa sec tor will be initiated by completing land acquisition and other preparatory works. A det ailed project report of NijgadhAmarapuri section will be prepared. The constructio n work of the remaining section will be carried forward gradually by making financial arrangements. 303. Detailed project report of Raxaul-Kathmandu and Ker ung-Kathmandu-Pokhara railway will be prepared in the next fiscal year. I have allocated Rs. 10.03 billion for railways. Water Transport 304. National and international access will be strengthe ned by operating water transport in country's big rivers. Triveni-Narayangadh-Devghat-Dasdhunga section of Narayani River will be named as Madan-Ashrit Waterways. I have all ocated necessary budget for the infrastructure construction including terminal for the operation of ship in koshi, narayani and karnali river starting from the next fiscal year. Barriers for waterways will be cleared to operate water transport from Chatara of Koshi River to Bhojpur. 305. I have allocated necessary budget for the feasibili ty study of water transport from Dolalghat to Arun Dobhan via Khurkot in Sunkoshi River, from Bhalubang to Sikta in Rapti River, from Tamakoshi Bazzarto Singati in Tamakoshi River and from Devghat to Ramdi in Kaligandaki River. 306. I have allocated Rs. 163.37 billion for Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport. 34 Hydropower Development 307. The present government has succeeded in entering in to bright era with the ending of decades long loadshedding. Construction of semi sto rage and storage projects will be acclerated so as to generate electricity that is su fficient to meet the domestic demand even in the dry season. 308. An additional 1,629 MW of electricity will be connected to the national grid in the coming fiscal year. This will include 228 MW from Tamakosh i, 111 MW from Rasuwagadhi, 56 MW from Sanjen and Upper Sanjen, 37 MW from Trishul i 3B, 40 MW from Rahughat, 102 MW from Madhya-Bhotekoshi along with 1,055 MW f rom the various under construction projects by private sector. 309. Ujyalo Nepal Campaign will be concluded with the electrification in additional 43 districts in the coming fiscal year. I have made an arrangeme nt to provide free electricity connection facility to the poor families. I have al located Rs. 4 billion for Rural and Community Electrification Programme. 310. Energy efficiency will be enhanced through energy mix, leakage control and strengthening distribution system. The policy of net metering and net payment i.e. selling of surplus solar energy produced by private sector to Nepal Electric ity Authority and purchasing in case of shortage, will be implemented. Arrangement will be made to permit industries, on wheeling charge basis, to produce and transmit modern energy for their self-consumption. 311. Bilateral and multilateral power trade agreements w ith potential countries will be concluded in order to attract investment in hydropower generation. 312. Private sector will be attracted in the construction of storage hydropower projects through the construction of dam and powerhouse by separate promoters. Arrangement will be made for the construction of dam by Nepal Electrici ty Authority and provide the water collected in the dam to the promoter companies of p ower house and other auxiliary structures on a charge basis. The rate of return will be increased by multiple use of water storage dam. 313. To increase the public ownership in hydropower deve lopment, construction of 99 MW Tamakoshi-5 will be initiated in the coming fiscal year with the joint investment of general public and Nepal Electricity Authority. The investment modality and preparatory works of Upper Arun, Fukot Karnali, Jagdulla and Ghunsa Khola hydro projects will be completed. 314. The construction of Tamor Hydropower Project will b e commenced after finalizing the detailed feasibility study of the project promptly. Pancheshwor Hydropower Project will be moved forward. 315. Arrangements will be made to provide additional dis count to the industrial users that consume energy in excess to a certain level of units and during low demand hours. In order to encourage the use of household electric equipment, I have lowered the customs tariff in the import of electric cookers, refrigerators, micr owave ovens, washing machines, dishwashers. While increasing the capacity of house hold electricity meter, arrangement will be made for no additional charges other than the cost of materials will be levied. 316. The construction of Budhigandaki, West Seti, Uttarg anga and Nalsingaad hydropower projects will be initiated after finalizing the con struction modality and financing arrangements. Financial arrangments will be made fo r the construction of Betan Karnali 35 Hydropower Project. The preparatory works of Karnal i Chisapani Hydropower Project will be initiated. 317. Policy measures to promote private sector in the c onstruction of transmission lines will be taken. Arrangement will be made to reimburse 75 per cent of the cost incurred by the hydropower promoters in constructing access road to the project site and transmission lines. 318. Arrangements will be made for timely completion of preparatory works such as: land acquisition for hydropower projects and transmissio n lines, environmental impact assessment and determination of right of way. Arran gements will be made so that the natural persons having land ownership on the right of way of the transmission line will have preference similar to the inhabitants of the a ffected area while issuing the primary shares by the producer companies. I have arranged for free parcel subdivision of the land falling in the right of way. 319. I have allocated Rs. 4.07 billion to start the construction of Butwal-Gorakhpur cross border transmission line and for the preparatory works for the construction of Kohapur-Lucknow, Lamki-Bareli cross border transmission lines. 320. I have made necessary appropriations for the comple tion of Khimti-Barbise-Kathmandu and Hetauda-Dhalkebaar-Inaruwa transmission lines, for preparatory work of ButwalLamahi-Kohalpur-Attariya and for the detailed feasibility study of Rasuwagadhi-ChilimeRatomate section. I have allocated Rs. 37.61 billio n for the construction of transmission lines and sub-stations. 321. The construction of 635 MW Dudhkoshi Storage Hydrop ower Project will be initiated in the coming fiscal year. The construction of Tanahu Storage Hydropower Project will be accelerated. The preparatory works of Upper Arun Semi Storage Project will be carried out. I have allocated Rs. 7.40 billion for this project. 322. The credit rating of Nepal Electricity Authority wi ll be carried out. In order to implement new projects, capacity of the Authority will be enhanced to mobilize resources in corporate guarantee basis. Alternative Energy 323. I have made budget allocation to provide electricit y services to additional 50 thousand households, not connected with national grid, through micro and small hydro projects, solar and wind energy. I have provided subsidy upto 90 percent of the project cost to the solar and micro hydropower generated and distributed by the local level as well as community organizations. 324. Nepal Electricity Authority will purchase the sola r energy produced by private sectors and the arrangements will be made to extend transmi ssion line to the production site for that purpose. It is estimated that 375 MW solar ene rgy will be produced in 250 local levels through this provision. I have made provision that respective local level will receive the fees arising from the establishment of solar plants. 325. I have made arrangement to provide financial grant to the respective local level in establishing high capacity biogas plants, in public private partnership, for producing energy and bio-fertilizer. I have allocated Rs. 2.76 billion for alternative energy sector. 326. I have allocated Rs.121.97 billion for Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation. 36 Housing and Urban Development 327. Thatched roofs of one hundred sixty-eight thousand houses will be replaced by zinc sheets under the Safe Citizen Housing Programme. I have increased the current grant amount by 50 percent to Rs. 75 thousand per household. I have allocated Rs. 3.50 billion for this purpose. 328. Under the Janata Awas Programme, houses under construction will be completed this year and handed over to twenty-one thousand eight hundre d households from indigent, the verge of extinction and marginalized groups in 73 d istricts including Taplejung, Sarlahi, Makwanpur, Parbat, Pyuthan, Jumla and Dadeldhura. I have allocated Rs. 2.50 billion for this purpose. 329. Integrated settlements will be developed in 86 plac es of 41 districts including Morang, Dhanusha, Sindhupalchok, Parbat, Arghakhanchi, Humla and Baitadi in order to relocate the risky settlements and provide basic infrastruct ure of development including drinking water, electricity and roads by integrating scattered settlements. 330. Rehabilitation programme will be implemented for the families displaced by the disaster in Sindhupalchok, Gulmi, Baglung, Myagdi, Dang, Sur khet, Banke, Bardiya and other districts. 331. Sustainable, safe and technology friendly smart cities will be built in Gauriganj, Dhankuta, Maulapur, Chandrapur, Gundu, Kavre valley, Walling, Lumbini Cultural, Tulsipur, Dullu, Amargadhi and Bhimdatta municipalities. 332. Urban infrastructure projects in the areas of roads, sewerage, drinking water, amusement park, bus park, education and health will be implem ented under Dense Urban Development Programme in Terai-Madhesh district hea dquarters Mahendranagar, Dhangadhi, Gulariya, Nepalganj, Taulihawa, Siddhart hnagar, Parasi, Birgunj, Kalaiya, Gaur, Malangwa, Jaleshwar, Janakpurdham, Siraha, Ra jbiraj, Inaruwa, Biratnagar, Bhadrapur and rapidly urbanizing municipalities. I have allocated Rs. 10.71 billion for this purpose. 333. Municipalities including Birtamod-Chandragadhi, Dha ran-Itahari, Janakpur-Dhalkewar, Butwal-Bhairahawa, Kohalpur-Nepalganj, Attaria-Dhangadhi will be developed as mega cities. Consultation services of international urban planners will be taken to formulate the master plan of mega city. 334. A model of streetscape will be designed and implemented for the enhancement of urban beauty. I have allocated budget for the construction of cultural footpath from Basantapur Durbar area to Swayambhunath that are listed in the World Heritage. 335. Utility corridors will be constructed in major urban areas including the capital city in order to place structures such as electricity, telephone, drinking water, optical fiber underground. Electricity wires will be undergrounded in big citi es including Kathmandu, Bharatpur, Pokhara, Butwal and Biratnagar. 336. The local levels will be encouraged to operate integrated land development programme for planned settlement. New city construction will be initiated in public-private partnership by attracting domestic and foreign investors in fou r places of Changunarayan, Suryabinayak, Madhyapur Thimi, Shankharapur and Kag eshwari Manohara municipal areas. The old cities including Myaglung, Ramechhap , Bhimphedi, Bandipur, Tansen, 37 Narayan, Jumla Khalanga and Silgadhi will be revita lized by developing urban infrastructure. 337. Capacity will be enhanced at the local levels to im plement National Building Code and Building Construction Standards. 338. The Town Development Fund will be restructured to M unicipal Finance Corporation by injecting capital. The corporation will be develope d as an institution that mobilizes blended finance including grant and technical assistance for the development of physical infrastructure in the urban areas. 339. Grants will be provided to the local levels for the establishment of environment friendly technology-based waste treatment plant in partnersh ip with the local level and private sectors. I have allocated budget to set up a furnac e plant at Bancharedanda as a permanent solution of the problem related to waste management in Kathmandu valley. 340. Based on Greater Kathmandu concept, urban infrastru cture will be developed in Panchkhal, Dhulikhel, Banepa, Panauti, Manchaur, Ch haimale, Dakshinkali, Chitlang, Lamidanda, Dhuniveshi, Bidur, Trishuli Corridor, Th ansingh, the adjoining areas of the valley. Feasibility study will be carried out for the construction of tunnel at Tathali-ChhapRabiopi of Bhaktapur and Godavari-Manchaur of Lalitpur. 341. For the cleanliness and beautification of the river s within the Kathmandu valley including Bagmati, Bishnumati, Ichchhumati, Karmanasha, Hanum ante, I have allocated Rs. 3.47 billion. I have allocated necessary budget for the construction of Nagmati Dam in Sundarijal for the water shed conservation at the o rigin and improve the water flow of the Bagmati River. 342. I have allocated Rs. 5.15 billion to continue ongoing construction of government buildings, conference centers and auditoriums including the fe deral parliament. Necessary arrangements will be made to operate government own ed conference halls and conference centers in public-private partnership. 343. I have allocated Rs. 3.31 billion to develop new ci ties in 27 places along the Pushpalal Highway and Postal Highway. 344. Ministry of Urban Development will formulate and im plement building standards for government offices and residents considering office location, nature of service to be delivered and number of employees in order to maint ain uniformity in the design and facilities of the offices. 345. Fiscal transfer will be made for the construction of infrastructure in Deukhuri, the center of the Lumbini Province and Godavari, the center of th e Far Western Province. I have allocated budget to develop the infrastructure of N awalparasi East and Rukum East district headquarters. 346. The area from Narayanhiti Museum to Dasharath Stadi um in Kathmandu will be developed as a well facilitated Central Park. Under this, I have allocated budget for the development of modern infrastructure including open stage with underground parking, beautiful garden and exhibition space covering Bhri kuti Mandap, Ranipokhari, Ratna Park, Tundikhel, Sundhara, Bhadrakali and Dasharath Stadium. 38 347. Private sector will be encouraged to build underground and multi-story parking lots in big cities of the country including Kathmandu. I have a llocated budget for the construction of a city park with a multistory bus park in Damak, Jhapa. 348. Arrangements will be made to update infrastructure network through GIS mapping by the service providers of drinking water, telephone, sew erage and electricity in urban and urban oriented areas. 349. Construction of outer Ring Road will be started in Kathmandu valley through land pulling. A four-lane link road will be constructed in possible places to link the outer Ring Road and the city. 350. Construction of South Asia Center will be started n ext year in Pulchowk, Lalitpur in investment partnership with Sajha Yatayat . 351. I have allocated Rs. 41.20 billion for the Ministry of Urban Development. Aviation Infrastructure 352. International investors will be selected for the pr eparation of Detailed Project Report, determination of investment modality and operationa lization and development of infrastructure of Nijgadh International Airport. Pr eparatory works of airport construction including land acquisition and site clearance will be completed in coming fiscal year. 353. The Tribhuvan International Airport will be developed as “Boutique Airport” by completing the upgradation works through reflecting the tradit ional Nepali cultures. To address the aviation pressure of this airport, taxiway extension and parking-way construction will be carried out. Improvement of the terminal building w ill be initiated. I have allocated Rs. 6.95 billion for this purpose. 354. I have allocated Rs. 8.50 billion to complete the r emaining construction of the Pokhara International Airport and bring it into operation i n the next fiscal year. I have allocated Rs. 3.53 billion to complete the construction along with the construction of second terminal building and other infrastructure of Gautam Buddha International Airport and bring it into operation in the coming fiscal year. 355. Extension, improvement and modernization of domesti c airports will be continued. Trial flights will be carried on Sukilumba, Simichaur and Masinechaur airports of Ilam, Gulmi and Dolpa district, respectively. The construction of physical infrastructure and improvement of the airports including Chandragadhi, Rajbiraj, Tumlingtar, Janakpur, Dhangadi, Arghakhanchi, Swargadwari, Patan and Darchula airports will be carried out. Surkhet and Bharatpur airports will be extended and upgraded. Construction of new terminal building in the Nepalgunj and Biratnagar a irports will be initiated. Construction of Narayanpur Airport in Dang will be started by co ncluding the Environmental Impact Assessment. I have allocated Rs. 1.33 billion for domestic airports. 356. Khiji Chandeswori Airport of Okhaldhunga will be br ought into operation. Runway extension of the Taplejung Suketar Airport will be completed. Construction of Chuhandanda Airport of Tehrathum will be expedited. Suketar Airport and Chuhandanda Airports will be named as Rabindra Adhikari Airport and Aang Kshiring Sherpa Airport, respectively. 39 357. Construction of helipads in all the local levels will be completed within coming fiscal year with a purpose of carrying out necessary tasks incl uding emergency health service and disaster management. Local Infrastructure Development 358. In the co-financing of federal, province and local level, all the centers of local levels will be connected to the provincial headquarters or to t he nearest national highway through black topped roads within upcoming three years. I h ave allocated Rs. 3.30 billion to initiate the construction of 616 km long road in the upcoming fiscal year in order to connect 28 centres of local level with the national road network. 359. I have allocated Rs. 1.52 billion to give continuit y to the Terai-Madhesh Prosperity Programme. I have allocated Rs. 3 billion to execut e High-hill and Northern Region Livelihood Programme and Northern Region Infrastruc ture Development and Livelihood Improvement Programme. 360. I have terminated Local Infrastructure Development Partnership Programme considering the resources required for the prevention, control and treatment of COVID-19, providing relief to the affected people and recover the econo my from the pandemic. I have also taken public suggestions into account in this respect. 361. Construction of 730 trail bridges will be completed in the next fiscal year under the programme to replace Tuin (crossing river through the rope) and other kinds of temporary risky bridges. Construction of new Tuin will be prohibited. I have allocated Rs. 5.05 billion for construction of suspension bridges. 362. Within next two years, construction of administrati ve building of all local levels will be completed. I have allocated Rs. 800 million to comp lete the construction of 70 administrative buildings and commence the construct ion of one hundred such other buildings. 363. The capacity of District Coordination Committee wil l be enhanced for monitoring and reporting of development programme being implemented by local levels. I have arranged subsidies for Association of District Coordination Committee, Nepal, Municipal Association of Nepal and National Association of Rural Municipality. 364. I have allocated Rs. 30.83 billion for Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration. Post-Earthquake Reconstruction 365. Based on the experience gained in the field of post -earthquake reconstruction and rehabilitation, a ten-year programme for building a Safe Nepal will be implemented from the coming fiscal year. 366. The success and experience gained by Nepal in postearthquake reconstruction will be presented to the world by organizing an internation al conference next year. An earthquake museum will be established to transfer k nowledge about earthquakes to future generations. 40 367. The construction of 14,155 classrooms of 1,307 scho ols, 105 health institutions, 195 cultural and archeological heritages and 36 governm ent buildings will be completed in the coming fiscal year. 368. Reconstruction and retrofitting of important buildings and archeological heritage including Presidential Building, Babarmahal, Balmandir, Kesha rmahal, Harihar Bhawan and Trichandra College damaged by the earthquake will b e expedited. The construction of integrated settlements in 39 places will be completed in the coming fiscal year. 369. After the completion of National Reconstruction Aut hority’s tenure (after mid-January 2022), the responsibility of completing the project s will be handed over to the sectoral ministries along with the necessary resources and r ecords from the beginning of the new fiscal year . I have allocated budget to complete t he work of Dharahara premises, retrofitting of Singha Durbar and reconstruction of Kasthamandap within the tenure of National Reconstruction Authority. 370. I have allocated Rs. 33.55 billion for earthquake reconstruction. Communication and Information Technology 371. The Government is highly committed towards democrac y comprising the citizen’s right to information and full freedom of press granted by the constitution. A policy will be adopted to develop the professionalism of the media house, media personnel and the overall press community. 372. Digital Nepal Framework will be implemented to make maximum use of information and communication technology. Convenient and easy acces s of the general people to public services will be expanded using digital technology. A digital economy based on knowledge and information will be developed. 373. Arrangements will be made to bear 50 percent of the insurance premium by the Government of Nepal through implementing accidental insurance up to Rs. 7 hundred thousand for the working journalists. An arrangemen t is made to provide free treatment to the members of the Federation of Nepali Journali sts in all the government health institutions across the country from mid-July on th e basis of the treatment facility identity card issued by the Press Council. A mass media trai ning academy will be established within the next fiscal year to enhance professional skills and professionalism of the media personnel. I have allocated necessary amount to com plete the building of the Federation of Nepali Journalists which is under-construction. 374. A press museum will be established in Sanchar Gram premises to preserve the history of Nepali press and journalism. Writing fellowship wil l be provided to the journalists who have lost their job due to COVID-19 and refinancing and business continuation credit facility will be provided to media houses. 375. The provision of depositing 10 percent of the amount that is provided by the Government of Nepal for public welfare advertisements in Journ alist Welfare Fund will be implemented soon. The media houses will also be enc ouraged to deposit 10 percent of the income earned through the advertisement provided by the private sector in the fund. Welfare fund mobilization procedure will be formula ted and executed within three months. 41 376. The quality of telecommunication services will be i mproved. The mobile device management system will be brought into operation from July 16, 2021. I believe this will control the use of illegal mobile sets as well as t he criminal activities operated through mobile phones. 377. Broadband internet service will be expanded to the centers of all local levels, ward offices, health institutions, community campuses and secondary schools by mobilizing Rural Telecommunication Development Fund. Construction of information superhighway will be completed within the next two years by laying optical fiber across the country. 4G service will be expanded to all local levels. The cyber sec urity of websites, applications and servers will be enhanced by institutional strengthe ning of the National Cyber Security Monitoring Center. 378. Equitable access in the government advertisements t o all types of newspapers, radio, television and online media will be ensured. 379. All types of service provided by government agencie s will be interlinked with Nagarik App. 380. Film shooting spots will be constructed in all prov inces. Construction of film shooting spot will be initiated in Ganesh Himal area after conducting its feasibility study. A modern film studio will be built in Banepa, Kavre. The concept of story bank will be brought into implementation for making best movies. 381. Postal service will be restructured to make it more modern and commercial. Important documents including citizenship, passport will be s afely and quickly delivered to the doorsteps of the citizens using the postal service. Feasibility study will be conducted to expand e-commerce through the post office. 382. The access of Radio Nepal will be expanded by insta lling additional transmitters in nine different places including Panchthar, Bhojpur, Siraha, Parbat and Dang. 383. NTV World Channel will be brought into operation to make the transmission of Nepal Television worldwide. 384. I have allocated Rs. 7.74 billion for the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology. Respected Sisters and Brothers, Now, I would like to present programmes and appropriations related to national security and governance: Law and Justice 385. I have allocated necessary budget for the institutional strengthening by implementing the strategic plan of the Judiciary and the Office of t he Attorney General. I have allocated budget for construction of buildings of Supreme Court, High Court of Baglung and Surkhet and District Courts of Bhaktapur, Chitwan, Syangja, Lamjung and Bajura as well as development of physical infrastructure of National Judicial Academy. 386. The free legal assistance programme being operated in 47 districts for those having no access to justice including single women, dalits , persons with disabilities, victims of gender42 based violence, children, senior citizens and helpl ess citizens will be extended to all districts in the coming fiscal year. I have arrange d to perform advocacy by officer level lawyers on behalf of the victims in all the districts of the country. 387. An officer level staff with knowledge and experience in law will be arranged to increase the capacity of Judicial Committee at the local level. 388. Social awareness and legal action will be strengthe ned to eradicate caste discrimination and untouchability, which is existed as a stigma of human civilization. 389. The remaining works of the peace process will be co mpleted. I have allocated necessary budget under transitional justice to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission and the Commission of Investigation on Enforced Disappeared Persons to fulfill their responsibilities. 390. The proper records of the families of martyrs and d isappeared, warriors of democracy, conflict victims and displaced, persons with disabilities and the injured people involved in all peoples movements, armed conflict and revolutions to achieve progressive democracy in Nepal will be maintained and support, respect and protection will be accorded. People affected by the armed conflict will be encouraged to become self-employed by providing concessional loans. National Security 391. Foundation of sustainable peace has been laid down in the country with the end of armed conflict and violent activities that existed for a long time. The present government has been successful in mainstreaming the forces and tendencies, into peaceful and democratic process, that intended to orient the country toward s disintegration and change the state mechanism through armed revolution. 392. The security forces will be strengthened by providi ng the necessary weapons, security equipment and vehicles to control crime and maintain peace and security. I have increased the existing ration facility by 15 percent to keep the high morale of the Nepal Police and the Armed Police Force. An additional 120 ward outp osts of the Armed Police Force will be established in the border areas to control border security, crime and illicit trade. 393. In order to make the immigration service at Tribhuv an Airport of international standard, arrangements will be made to operate the Advance Pa ssenger Information System so as to receiving the details of the passengers in advan ce, the electronic gateway and issue electronic visa with QR code. 394. The physical infrastructure of all the immigration offices at the border points will be improved and the records including the biometric details of the foreign nationals entering Nepal will be updated through the electronic system. 395. Prisons will be developed as improvement centers. Construction of open prisons in Nuwakot and Banke will be completed next year. I have alloc ated budget for the construction of prisons in Panchthar and Morang. A museum will be constructed in the Central Jail premises in order to commemorate the contribution made by the prisoners in course of democratic movements and reflect the history of the Jail as well. 43 396. Identity cards will be distributed to 7 million peo ple next year as per the target of distributing national identity cards to all Nepalis within the next two years. Vital registration will be made qualitative, simple and easy using electronic means. 397. Production, smuggling and trafficking of drugs will be controlled by mobilizing law enforcement agencies in a coordinated manner. Awareness programmes will be conducted in coordination with community organizations to refrain youth and children from addiction. Human trafficking will be controlled by strengtheni ng the security forces using modern equipment, information technology and providing training. 398. The capacity of Nepal Army will be enhanced and mob ilized for national security, defense, disaster management and development activities as well. 399. I have given continuity to bunker-to-barrack progra mme. National Cadet Corps will be encouraged towards nationalism, patriotism and nati onal service. I have allocated necessary budget for the construction of physical a nd educational infrastructure of National Defense University. Disaster Management 400. The pressure exerted by disaster risk management on government treasury will be reduced by implementing Disaster Risk Reduction Fin ancing Strategy. Damages will be mitigated by developing early disaster warning syst em. I have allocated necessary budget for disaster preparedness, search, rescue, relief and rehabilitation programmes. 401. Helicopter sprinklers and other equipment will be kept standby under the management of Nepal Army in order to minimize the damage caused by wildfire. The concerned agencies including security forces will be made functional i n a coordinated manner for disaster management. 402. For the rescue and management of disaster, all the provinces will be equipped with multipurpose robotic firefighting, modern fire brig ade, multi-seated ambulance and rescue vehicle. All the local levels will be equipp ed with fire brigade to reduce and manage the disaster caused by fire. 403. Institutional capacity of National Disaster Risk Re duction and Management Authority will be enhanced through structural reform to expedite post-disaster reconstruction. International Relations 404. International relations will be maintained based on sovereign equality for protecting Nepal's independence, sovereignty, territorial inte grity, and national interest. National interest, mutual benefit and respect, international commitment and responsibility and justice will be made as guiding principle while implementing foreign policy. 405. Everest Dialogue will be organized next year to gar ner regional and international solidarity and cooperation on climate change and mitigating its effects. 406. Diplomatic missions abroad will be made more functional with well-defined responsibilities for the promotion of international trade, secured foreign employment, foreign investment and tourism. 44 407. Nepal’s diplomatic missions abroad will be mobilized for the protection of the rights and interests of Nepalis living abroad, safeguard them from pandemic risk and continuation of their decent job. Preparations will be initiated to ensure their voting rights. Electronic passport will be issued from the coming fiscal year to make the passport service safe and reliable. 408. The NRN (Non-Resident Nepali) Fund, co-financed by the Government of Nepal, will be used for infrastructure development by utilizing the knowledge, capital and technology of non-resident Nepalis for national development. NRN smart cards that provide separate identity to non-resident Nepali, will be distribute d. The knowledge of Nepalis who have acquired expertise and specialization abroad will b e used in nation building by making the Brain Gain Center functional. Civil Servant 409. Public service will be made effective by boosting t he morale of civil servants up. I have arranged to cover premium of Rs. one million for gr oup accidental insurance and Rs. one hundred thousand for health insurance of all civil servants by the Government of Nepal. 410. Arrangement will be made to fill the vacant position of civil service within 6 months. 411. Arrangements will be made to construct collective h ousing at all the provinces from the Employees Provident Fund and Citizens Investment Fund to provide housing facility for the civil servants at concessional rates. 412. The facilities entitled to civil servants will be made time relevant. Despite the unfavorable situation caused by COVID-19 and its resultant pressure upon public expenditure, I have increased the salary of all public servants by Rs. 2 thousand per month which will be effective from mid-July 2021 to increase the effect iveness of public service by boosting the morale of the public servants up. I have given continuity to the dearness allowance provided at present. A Pay Commission consisting of experts will be formed to study and submit suggestions on the salary and other service facilities of the civil servants in order to make it compatible with South Asian countries. 413. The services of Civil Service Hospital will be expa nded in collaboration with provincial level hospitals. Fifty percent of the social security tax collected from the civil servants will be provided for the infrastructure development of t he Civil Service Hospital and expansion of its services. The specific number of b eds will be allocated for civil servants in civil hospital and dedicated outpatient service will be operated to them. 414. Civil service schools will be established in all the provinces to provide quality educational opportunities for the children of civil servants. T he civil service schools in Dhankuta and Dipayal will be upgraded in partnership and collaboration with the provinces. Scholarship up to Rs. 5 hundred thousand will be provided to th e children of civil servants to pursue graduate degree and above based on provincial level competition. 415. I have arranged to deliver services and other facil ities including pension authorization to the teachers across the country from the District T reasury Controller Office of the concerned district starting from the coming July 16. 416. Infrastructure of Nepal Administrative Staff Colleg e will be developed. A high-level training academy will be established in Chandragadh i, Jhapa to promote continuous learning programme by providing periodic training to public officials. 45 Good Governance and Public Service Delivery 417. Governance fairness will be maintained by strictly implementing the policy of zero tolerance against corruption. The promise “I will not be corrupt; I will not allow corruption to happen and I will work honestly for the country and the people” will be fully implemented. 418. Public service will be made accessible, smart and technology friendly. The system of taking feedback from service user will be institutionalize d. The grievances received from the citizens will be resolved s immediately. Performanc e contract with quantitative and measurable indicators will be done with key officials and project heads. 419. Capacity building and institutional strengthening o f constitutional bodies will be done. Infrastructure will be developed by arranging land in suitable places within Kathmandu valley for the constitutional bodies. I have allocated necessary resource for strengthening and capacity building of the National Human Rights Commission. 420. Feasibility study will be carried out for the use o f information technology in the election system. I have allocated necessary budget for the u pcoming election of the House of Representatives and local levels. 421. In order to enhance the quality of infrastructure p rojects, the scope of technical audit through the National Vigilance Center will be expanded. Respected Sisters and Brothers, Now, I present programmes and appropriations relate d to planning and public finance management: Financial Planning and Statistics 422. The role of the National Planning Commission in for mulating development policy and planning, inter-government coordination, monitoring and evaluation of policy research and implementation will be strengthened. Mid-term e valuation of the Fifteenth plan will be carried out. 423. A separate action plan will be formulated and imple mented to manage the impact on grant assistance, trade facilitation, the opportunity for representation in the international arena and others in transition period due to the gr aduation from the least developed to the developing country. 424. National Census, Nepal Living Standards Survey, Nat ional Agricultural Census and Industrial Census will be completed next year. The disaggregated and sectoral data up to the province and local level will be made available. 425. Safe storage of data will be ensured by integrating the information available with different government agencies. Big data processing capacity will be developed. Open data approach will be implemented gradually. Public Enterprises 426. Proposals will be invited to operate the non-operat ional or partially operational government industries including Agricultural Tool F actory, Butwal Spinning Mills, 46 Gorakhkali Tire Factory, Birgunj Sugar Mill, Hetaud a Textile Industry in partnership with private sector. The existing land and physical infr astructure will be accounted as government’s share and private sector will be encouraged to operate those industries with additional investment. 427. Nepal Airlines Corporation will be restructured to make it more commercial and competitive. Inviting strategic partners through op en competitions will be initiated. The capital of the corporation will be restructured and increased. 428. Twenty two percent shares of the company will be di vested to the natural persons using mobile, landline and internet service of Nepal Telecommunication Company (NTC) in order to extend the access of customer on ownership and p rofit sharing of NTC. The listed customers upto mid-January 2022 including the existing ones will be eligible to purchase these shares. The details about divestment process and share price will be decided by mid-October 2021. 429. The compliance level of the terms and conditions of the agreement with those privatized corporations will be monitored annually. The assets used against the terms and conditions of the agreement will be got back to the Government of Nepal. Implementation of Fiscal Federalism 430. Collaboration and coordination between the federal, province and local level will be further strengthened. The role of Inter-Provincial Council, Provincial Coordination Council and Intergovernmental Fiscal Council will be made more effective. 431. Local Government Operation Act and Intergovernmenta l Fiscal Arrangement Act will be amended. Budget presenting date of province and loc al level will be revised in order to make the effective coordination for project managem ent among federal, province and local level. 432. In order to avoid the scarcity of technical manpowe r at provinces and local levels, an arrangement will be made to hire technical position s through service contract until the vacant positions are permanently fulfilled. 433. Commercially viable projects including operation of electric vehicles, information technology park, construction of bus park and touri sm infrastructure, solid waste management, commercial agriculture, construction of stadium will be implemented in the co-finance of Government of Nepal, Province and Local Level. 434. The capacity of District Coordination Committee wil l be enhanced and effectively mobilized in monitoring and evaluation of projects funded through conditional, special and matching grant. Public Finance and Budget Implementation 435. The respective ministries can approve, with the con sent of Ministry of Finance, the procedures, guidelines and standards required for b udget implementation. I believe this will expedite the implementation of the programme. 436. I have simplified budget virement and programme amendment process by upgrading the Ministerial Level Budget Information System. I have arranged for submission of budget virement and programme amendment request through el ectronic medium from budget 47 implementing agencies and its approval accordingly by the Ministry of Finance. In order to maintain budget discipline, an integrated information system will be developed to get immediate physical progress report of the programme , implemented by the federal, province and local level. 437. The National Project Bank will be developed followi ng certain standards and updated regularly. Projects having preparatory works includ ing feasibility study will be put forward for implementation. 438. A prompt, transparent, simple and predictable proce ss will be applied in acquiring land in order to avoid delay and dispute in acquisition while implementing development projects. The legal provision will be so made that the total compensation for land acquisition including all the belongings will not e xceed three times of the valuation determined by the local level in the previous fiscal year for tax purpose. 439. In order to avoid the misinterpretation of accounti ng of capital related expenditure as recurrent expenditure, I have made separate heading s as recurrent and capital expenditure under fiscal transfer from federal to p rovince and local level. This arrangement has been presented in the budget annex. 440. Fiscal discipline will be maintained by making the responsible officials accountable to the output of public expenditure. The internal control system will be strengthened to efficiently mobilize the public expenditure. 441. The project manager will be made responsible for the timely completion of the project by adopting performance-based rewards and punishment s ystem. A policy will be adopted not to transfer the project manager and major responsible staffs till the project period, as far as the performance is satisfactory. 442. To expedite the implementation of national pride an d game changer projects, separate legal arrangements will be made for land acquisitio n, environmental impact assessment, manpower management and procurement process of road, railway, urban infrastructure, irrigation, drinking water, international airports and hydropower projects. Necessary arrangements will be made to prevent the shortage of resources in the implementation of these projects. 443. Contemporary amendments will be made in the procure ment law to solve the problems existed in public procurement management. I have gi ven continuity to the Standards Related to Economizing Public Expenditure, 2020. Th e consultants will not be appointed for the work that can be performed by the regular s tructure and this provision will be strictly enforced. 444. International development assistance will be mobili zed for national needs and priority projects to achieve development goals. 445. Public debt will be maintained within required limi ts. I have continued the policy of mobilizing internal debt only for development expenditure. The loan amount will be used in the productive sector. Financial Sector Management 446. Financial stability will be maintained by adopting efficient regulatory mechanism and corporate governance. The resources obtained from the financial system will be mobilized 48 in the productive sector for economic growth, local entrepreneurship promotion and job creation. The second Financial Sector Development S trategy will be formulated and implemented. 447. Arrangements will be made to transact all kinds of payments, grants and cash transfers including revenue to be received and the social security allowances to be provided by the Government of Nepal through banking system. 448. The use of electronic payment tools will be made easy, accessible and secure. A National Payment Switch will be established in the coming fi scal year to facilitate payment and clearance of transactions within Nepal by interconnecting payment cards, retail payment, QR code and other electronic payment tools. Nepal's own payment card will be introduced. 449. Remittance will be encouraged to receive through th e banking system and to invest it in the productive sector. Arrangements will be made for migrant workers to remit easily from their mobile wallets. Arrangement for an additional one percent interest will be provided if the amount received from remittance be deposited in a fixed deposit account of the bank and financial institution. 450. Alternative methods of financing including ‘blended finance’ will be used to meet the longterm financing needs of mega infrastructure projects. 451. Employees Provident Fund, Citizens Investment Trust , Social Security Fund and other agreed long-term funds will be mobilized in product ive sector, job creation, modern infrastructure construction and economic recovery. 452. The scope of insurance services will be expanded to reach at least one-third of the population by next year. Insurance of public infras tructure, government and private buildings will be carried out as a campaign. In case of private buildings, I have arranged to allow the insurance premium of up to Rs. 5 thous and to be deducted as expense for income tax purpose. 453. Emphasis will be given to the development and stabi lity of the capital market. The commodity market will be launched from the next fiscal year. Product like paddy, maize, wheat, tea, cardamom will be traded in the commodity market. 454. Commercial hedging facility will be initiated to minimize the foreign exchange risk in the development projects executed from foreign investment project. 455. Institutional capacity will be enhanced by increasing the capital of the Deposit and Credit Guarantee Fund. I have arranged to reduce the deposit guarantee premium. 456. Implementation of a national strategy will be made more effective to prevent money laundering and financial investment in terrorist activities and to reduce risks. Respected Sisters and Brothers, Now, I present the estimate of budget allocation an d resource management for the implementation of the above-mentioned sectoral policies and programmes: 457. I have allocated Rs. 1,647.57 billion to implement the policies and programme of coming fiscal year. Out of the total allocation, amounts t o be spent by federal government Rs. 678.61 billion (41.2 percent) is for recurrent, Rs. 374.26 billion (22.7 percent) is for 49 capital, and Rs. 207.97 billion (12.6 percent) is f or fiscal arrangement as well as Rs. 386.71 billion (23.5 percent) is for intergovernmental fiscal transfer to provinces and local levels. Out of total budget allocation for fiscal transfers, Rs. 325.74 billion (84.2 percent) is for recurrent expenditure including equalization grant and Rs. 60.97 billion (15.8 percent) is for capital expenditure. 458. Out of total estimated expenditure, Rs. 1,024.90 billion will be financed through revenue mobilization and Rs. 63.37 billion will be financed through foreign grants. This will lead to a deficit of Rs. 559.30 billion. Out of this, to tal deficit including the amount allocated for fiscal arrangement, Rs. 309.29 billion will be covered from foreign loan and the remaining Rs. 250 billion will be financed through domestic borrowing. Respected Sisters and Brothers, I now present the revenue mobilization policy and p rogramme for the coming FY 2021/22. 459. I, while determining the revenue policy and tax rat es for upcoming fiscal year, have accorded high priority for speedy economic recovery by providing relief and incentives to the taxpayer in this adverse situation created by the health and economic crisis. 460. The objectives of revenue mobilization are as follows: a) To provide tax exemption, and relief to the busines ses affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, b) To promote domestic and foreign, protect domestic i ndustries and provide trade facilitation through revenue policy, c) To mobilize additional revenue by broadening the ta x net, protecting the tax base and controlling the revenue leakage, d) To make the revenue system more progressive, fair, transparent, automated and predictable, and e) To promote voluntary tax compliance by enhancing ef ficiency of revenue administration, developing infrastructure and maxim um utilizing information technology. Respected Sisters and Brothers, I have presented the following policies and program mes to achieve the mentioned objectives: Exemption and Relief 461. I have arranged to provide 90 percent income tax ex emption to the taxpayers having annual turnover up to Rs. 2 million, 75 percent to the taxpayers having annual turnover of Rs. 2 million to 5 million and 50 percent to the taxpayers having annual turnover of Rs. 5 million to 10 million for the FY 2020/21. 462. I have made an arrangement to levy one percent income tax on taxable income of hotels, travel, trekking, transport and air services, film industry and media houses that are 50 severely affected by COVID-19 and extend the loss c arry-forward period for these businesses to 10 years. 463. I have made an arrangement to waive remaining fees and penalties to those companies and firms, that have not submitted their annual sta tements and not renewed till the FY 2018/19 as per the Company Act, 2007 and Private Firm Registration Act, 1958, if they submit their statements and pay 10 percent of their fees and penalties by mid-October 2021. 464. I have made an arrangement to waive remaining inter est, fees, additional charge and penalty to those tax payers if they withdraw their cases; other than involving fraud and counterfeit invoices; being filed in Inland Revenue Department or Revenue Tribunal or Court against the assessment made within mid-July 2 020 in accordance with Income Tax Act, 2002, Value Added Tax Act, 1996 and Excise Act , 2002, by paying assessed tax and 50 percent of the incurred interest within mid-December 2021. 465. I have made an arrangement to waive fees, penalty a nd additional charge if the tax amount and its incurred interest, that remains outstanding till mid-July 2019 as per Income Tax Act, 2002, Value Added Tax Act, 1996 and Excise Act, 2002 is paid by mid-January 2022. 466. I have made an arrangement for the amount contribut ed to the COVID-19 Infection Prevention, Control and Treatment Fund established by the Government of Nepal, Provincial Government or local level as a deductibl e expense for the purpose of calculating taxable income for the FY 2020/21. 467. I have made an arrangement for the amount spent fro m the fund appropriated for corporate social responsibility in the FY 2020/21 t hat is incurred in the construction of specialized hospitals as prescribed by the Ministry of Health and Population or for the purchase of health equipment and accessories related to the treatment of COVID-19 and provided to prescribed health institutions as a ded uctible expense for the purpose of calculating taxable income. 468. I have arranged to exempt additional 25 percent whi le calculating the taxable income from pension. 469. I have arranged to claim the Value Added Tax, paid on the purchase of diesel and LP gas, used in the taxable business of the taxpayer as credit. I have exempted Value Added Tax on transportation service, vehicle rental, carg o service, e-library service, deposit guarantee fee, trekking and tour package, silo and service charge on silo use, and fee for issuing certificate of origin. 470. I have extended the timeline for exporting and releasing the bank guarantee up to midApril 2022 for the export-oriented industries that were unable to export the finished goods produced from raw materials imported on bank guarantee timely under the bonded warehouse facility. 471. I have exempted customs duty, value added tax and excise duty on import, production as well as on sale and distribution of oxygen gas, liq uid oxygen, oxygen cylinder, oxygen concentrator and other life-saving materials and medicines till mid-January 2022. 472. I have abolished excise duty and substantially reduced customs tariff on import of electric vehicles in order to increase the internal consumption of electricity and to promote the use of environment friendly means of transportation. 51 473. I have reduced the customs tariff to one percent fo r induction cooker. I have reduced the customs tariff and abolished the excise duty on ref rigerators, grinders, rice cookers, fans and other electrical appliances. 474. I have reduced the customs tariff by 50 percent on the milk to be consumed by infants to promote infant health and nutrition. Broadening Tax Base 475. I have kept the rate of Value Added Tax unchanged. I have slightly adjusted the customs tariff. I have increased excise duty on alcohol, be er, wine, cigarettes, tobacco and soft drinks. 476. All the taxpayer having transaction of good and service above taxable threshold will be brought into the net of Value Added Tax. Arrangemen ts will be made for all the taxpayers registered in Value Added Tax to issue ta x invoice through electronic system mandatorily step by step. 477. I have raised threshold for filing presumptive income tax return from Rs. 2 million to Rs. 3 million without making any changes in the tax rate for small taxpayers. I have raised the threshold of turnover tax from Rs. 5 million to Rs. 10 million. I have arranged to waive tax on the income of mutual fund. 478. The provision of immediately refunding 10 percent of Value Added Tax to the consumers, paid on the purchase of goods and service through t he use of electronic medium such as debit card, credit card, QR code, scan-to-pay and o ther electronic means will be implemented. Industrial Protection and Investment Promotion 479. I have arranged to keep customs tariff for industrial raw-material at least one layer lower that of their finished good for the protection of d omestic industries. I have abolished the excise duty on some of the domestic products. 480. I have exempted customs duty on machinery equipment and spare parts, to be used in tea, jute, movie, pashmina, hatchery industries, and agriculture and nursery farms. I have reduced the customs duty on importing containers th at applied so far to shipping companies registered in Nepal. 481. I have exempted 50 percent tax on commercial agricultural income to increase production and employment by commercializing agriculture. I ha ve exempted 50 percent customs duty on one transport vehicle to be imported by agr o cooperatives that run collective commercial farming. 482. The corporate income tax rate will be reviewed and made competitive in order to attract investment in processing industries to accelerate the post-COVID economic revival. 483. I have given 100 percent income tax exemption to st artup business for five years from the date of commencement of the business. I have ar ranged to deduct the amount given to the startup business in the form of seed capital by industries of private sectors as expenses while calculating the taxable income. Howe ver, the limit of such seed capital should be for maximum five startup business and up to hundred thousand per business. 52 484. I have provided 20 percent tax exemption on the inc ome generated from the sale of domestically produced raw material and auxiliary raw material to special industries and made an arrangement to levy only 10 percent of inco me tax on income of special industries generated through export. 485. I have reduced the rate of withholding tax on the i nterest on loan paid to the foreign financial institutions borrowed by banks. I have ab olished the provision of levying withholding tax on interest paid by the cooperative bank and cooperatives while lending to each other. 486. I have arranged exemption on income tax by 50 perce nt for the first 3 years and 25 percent for additional 2 years from the date of tra nsaction; to those industries which produce new products by utilizing used goods only a s raw materials, which are directly hazardous to environment. 487. I have arranged exemption on income tax by 50 perce nt for the first 3 years and 25 percent for the additional 5 years from the date of production; to those industries that are operated out of industrial district or industri al village in case they are relocated to industrial area or industrial village. Revenue Leakage Control 488. Revenue leakage will be strictly controlled. Market monitoring, tax audit and investigation will be intensified. An integrated taxpayer informa tion system will be developed by maintaining an interconnection between Central Bill ing Monitoring System (CBMS), ASYCUDA World system, Vehicle and Consignments Trac king System (VCTS), Land Records Information Management System (LRIMS) and, records and information system of banks and financial institutions. 489. Transaction value method will be implemented more e ffectively for the valuation of imported goods. A robust, factual and realistic customs valuation system will be developed based on information collected through regular mark et surveys. The provision to procure under-invoiced goods at the customs point will be s trictly implemented. Post clearance audit will be made more effective. Tax System and Administrative Reform 490. A highlevel tax system review commission will be formed to suggest for reforms in direct and indirect tax system including value added tax, income tax, customs duty, excise and non-tax revenue to expand the scope of revenue and protect tax base, control tax leakage and create investment friendly environment. 491. Arrangements will be made to receive tax clearance certificate through automatic system by all the taxpayers having no tax arrears and paid tax as per self-assessment in the current fiscal year. I have abolished the provision of certifying purchase and sales book of value added tax by a tax officer every year. 492. The sixth phase of Customs Reform and Modernization Plan will be implemented from 16 July 2021. The National Single Window System will be brought into implementation fully. 493. Arrangements will be made to pay all the taxes and duties at the Customs points through electronic system. I have made arrangement for the industry to renew the Export and Import code number (EXIM Number) at once for a period of five years. 53 494. Modern equipment including container scanner, weighing machine will be installed in seven large customs offices: Mechi, Biratnagar, Birgunj, Bhairahawa, Nepalgunj, Rasuwa and Tatopani. Customs offices will be established and o perated at Gautam Buddha International Airport, Pokhara International Airport, and Janakpur Railway Station. 495. An integrated laboratory will be established and up graded in the Customs offices on a priority basis with a view to control the import of goods which adversely affect the national security, human health and the environment. 496. The excise stickers will be made QR code readable a nd scanned data will be recorded in the automated system of Inland Revenue Department. The provision to install flow meter in breweries will be implemented. Respected Sisters and Brothers, 497. Actual expenditure of FY 2019/20, revised estimates of FY 2020/21 and details of income-expenditure of FY 2021/22 have been presente d in the annexes. Ministry-wise annual progress report of the current fiscal year, development cooperation, technical assistance to be received from international develo pment partners and assistance to be mobilized through international non-governmental organizations in the coming fiscal year have already been published. 498. In the coming fiscal year, I expect that COVID-19 pandemic will successfully be controlled; vaccination campaign will be completed; health infrastructure will be profoundly improved; implementation of mega project s of strategic importance will be expedited; road network will be expanded; access of each household to modern energy will be ensured; technology-based teaching will be broadened and two additional international airports will come into operation. Output of these activities will contribute to the speedy economic recovery. 499. I believe that the economic recovery programmes im plemented by the Government and the vaccination against COVID-19 will support to bounce back the situation to new normal. On this ground, I have projected the economic growt h rate to be around 6.5 percent in the coming fiscal year. Nepal Rastra Bank will formulate monetary policy so as to contain the inflation rate within 6.5 percent and facilitate in budget implementation. 500. Despite many inconveniences and adversities, I am confident that the implementation of this budget will make a tangible contribution in fu lfilling the national aspiration: Prosperous Nepal Happy Nepali , maintaining the enthusiasm of Nepali people and pace of economic and social development. I heartily requ est the political parties, people's representatives, social organizations, the private sector and the civil society to make a positive contribution from their respective places in this crisis caused by COVID-19 pandemic. 501. The implementation of this budget will support in p rotecting the lives of people from all kinds of diseases along with minimizing the COVID-1 9 risk through the arrangement of infrastructure, equipment and human resource, carrying out economic activities along with controlling the pandemic, immediate reviving of sluggish economy; making inclusive access to vocational education; providing job and employme nt opportunities to individuals entering labor market and providing social security and protection based on life cycle approach. I expect that all these will significantly contribute towards establishment of the welfare state. 54 502. I express my heartfelt gratitude to the Right Honor able President, Right Honorable VicePresident, Right Honorable Prime Minister, Right Honorable Chief Justice, Right Honorable Speaker of the House of Representatives and Right H onorable Chairperson of the National Assembly for their guidance in budget form ulation. My sincere thanks go to the political parties, economists, private sector, coop erative sector, the citizens and mass media for providing valuable suggestions during the formulation of the budget. I would like to express my sincere gratitude to all the tax payers who have been continuously supporting in Nepal's economic and social development and to the development partners who have been continuously supporting Nepal even in the difficult times. I have also expected everyone's constructive support in the budget implementation. 503. Finally, I heartily call upon all Nepali sisters and brothers to take part in the development campaign of the country by maintaining health protocol and staying safe from the risk of COVID-19 pandemic. Thank you. Disclaimer: If the content in English and Nepali ve rsion of budget speech contradicts, the latter will be valid. ANNEXES Budget Summary Fiscal Year/g32021/22 Annex 1 (Rs. In '000) Description 2019/20 Actual 2020/21 Revised Estimate 2021/22 Estimate Amount Source Nepal Government Foreign Grant Loan 1/g3Revenue (2 + 3 + 4) 8,41,31,25 9,59,68,00 11,51,60,04 11,51,60,04 0 0 2/g3Taxes 7,00,05,55 8,71,67,97 10,38,19,38 10,38,19,38 0 0 3/g3Non-Tax Revenue 93,69,12 88,00,03 1,13,40,66 1,13,40,66 0 0 4/g3Cash Balance of Last Year and Irregularities 47,56,58 0 0 0 0 0 5/g3Sharing 1,00,18,67 1,08,85,00 1,26,69,31 1,26,69,31 0 0 6 Revenue to be deposited in Federal Treasury (1-5) 7,41,12,58 8,50,83,00 10,24,90,73 10,24,90,73 0 0 7/g3Grants 23,71,88 27,06,07 63,37,62 0 63,37,62 0 8/g3 Revenue and grants from federal government (6+7) 7,64,84,46 8,77,89,07 10,88,28,35 10,24,90,73 63,37,62 0 9/g3Expenditure (10 + 11 + 12) 9,73,43,15 11,19,01,44 14,39,59,91 11,63,08,72 59,40,12 2,17,11,07 10/g3Recurrent 4,33,89,23 5,01,09,01 6,78,61,33 6,03,32,71 20,28,74 54,99,88 11/g3Capital 1,89,14,01 2,51,47,32 3,74,26,86 1,89,81,20 29,20,16 1,55,25,50 12/g3Fiscal Transfer (13 + 14) 3,50,39,91 3,66,45,11 3,86,71,72 3,69,94,81 9,91,22 6,85,69 13/g3Recurrent 3,50,39,91 3,66,45,11 3,25,74,55 3,13,31,94 8,35,33 4,07,28 14/g3Capital 0 0 60,97,17 56,62,87 1,55,89 2,78,41 15/g3Budget Surplus (-) Deficit (+) (9-8) 2085869 2411237 3513156 1381799 -39750 2171107 16/g3Financial Management -1,93,64,23 -2,41,12,37 -3,51,31,56 -1,38,17,99 3,97,50 -2,17,11,07 17/g3Domestic Financial Assets (18 + 19 + 20) 60,07,45 82,77,35 1,24,30,10 28,14,35 3,97,50 92,18,25 18/g3Loan Investment to Public Enterprise 47,58,69 47,40,97 1,06,50,47 14,20,22 1,45,00 90,85,25 19/g3Loan Investment to Other Enterprise 5,00 0 0 0 0 0 20/g3Share Investments to Public Enterprise 12,43,76 35,36,38 17,79,63 13,94,13 2,52,50 1,33,00 21/g3Net Internal Loan (22) 28,99 35,00 35,00 35,00 0 0 22/g3Foreign Share Investments 28,99 35,00 35,00 35,00 0 0 23/g3Domestic Net Borrowing (24 + 25) -1,60,92,33 -1,86,71,66 -2,01,68,10 -2,01,68,10 0 0 24/g3Loan from Other Institutes -1,94,90,00 -2,23,27,37 -2,50,00,00 -2,50,00,00 0 0 25/g3Amortizations 33,97,67 36,55,71 48,31,90 48,31,90 0 0 26/g3External Net Borrowing (27 + 28) -93,08,34 -1,37,53,06 -2,74,28,56 35,00,76 0 -3,09,29,32 27/g3External Borrowing -1,16,64,39 -1,65,10,02 -3,09,29,32 0 0 -3,09,29,32 28/g3External Amortization 23,56,05 27,56,96 35,00,76 35,00,76 0 0 29 Budget Surplus (-) Deficit (+) (15+16) 14,94,46 0 0 0 0 0 30/g3Total Income (8+24+27) 10,76,38,85 12,66,26,46 16,47,57,67 12,74,90,73 63,37,62 3,09,29,32 31/g3 Total Expense (9+17+21+25+28) 10,91,33,31 12,66,26,46 16,47,57,67 12,74,90,73 63,37,62 3,09,29,32 /g3 1 /g3 Receipts of Revenue and Grant Estimates F iscal Year 2021/22 Annex 2 /g10‘00000/g11 Heading 2019/20 Actual 2020/21 Revised 2021/22 Estimate Existing Measures New Measures Taxes 7000555 8716797 10381938 9661229 720709 Taxes on income, profits, and capital gains 2132330 2384993 2738307 2662930 75377 Payable by individuals & Sole Traders 579278 914578 975668 952801 22867 11111-/g3individuals & Sole Traders 236525 304173 335316 32525/g26 10059 11112Remuneration Tax 250046 305625 320146 313743 6403 11113Capital Gain Tax Individuals 92708 304780 320206 313802 6404 Payable by Entity 1231512 1059455 1275667 1237766 37901 11121Tax on Entity Profit Government Corporation 110247 61057 73760 71916 1844 11122Tax on Entity Profit Public Limited Company 472000 508901 612319 593949 18370 11123Tax on Entity Profit Private Limited Company 323792 393028 473280 45908/g21 14198 11124Tax on Entity Profit Other Institutions 88603 88785 105084 10193/g20 3153 11125Capital Gain Tax Entity 236870 7683 11224 10888 33/g28 Taxes on Investment and Other Income 321540 410961 486971 472362 14609 11131Taxes on Assets Rent and Lease Income 26540 30370 40591 39373 1218 11132Interest 219971 281450 332340 322370 9970 11133Dividend 59380 79303 92344 8957/g23 2770 11134Other investment income 681 1329 1422 1380 4/g21 11135-Tax on windfall gain 2692 2028 3231 3134 97 11139Taxes on other income 12275 16480 17044 16532 51/g21 Taxes on Payroll and Workforce 65081 72654 85974 83395 2579 11211Social security taxes on payroll 65081 72654 85974 83395 2579 Taxes on Property 43 4 81 79 2 Recurrent taxes on immovable property 43 4 81 79 2 11311Annual private property tax – individual 43 4 71 68 /g22 11312Annual private property tax – entity 0 0 11 11 0 Taxes on goods and services 3564126 4480727 5339644 4807667 531977 Value Added Tax (VAT) 2240165 2705961 3055868 2834397 22147/g20 11412VAT other than shareable sources 223 0 0 0 0 33111Value Added Tax – Production 908 1162 1306 1241 65 33112Value Added TaxImport 276169 351659 401945 369789 32156 33113Value Added Tax Goods and Distribution /g3/g3 1258068 1591457 1742633 1620649 121984 33114Value Added TaxService and Contract 224258 255086 326644 303779 22865 33115Value Added Tax – Tourism 318118 325197 369693 340118 29575 33116Value Added Tax Telephone, Insurance, Air Travel and other services 96993 122782 144397 134289 10108 33117Value Added TaxNon-registered 45160 51286 56315 52373 3942 Excise 1006375 1382763 1725735 1467220 25851/g24 11422Import 356471 523832 684560 581876 102684 11462-Health hazard import 52 31532 34591 29749 484/g21 11461-Health hazard – production 54 207 366 311 55 33131-Tobacco 185532 198118 240049 204042 36007 33132Alcohol 200763 256984 316987 269439 47548 33133Beer 148209 212989 268060 227851 40209 33134-Other Industrial Production 115294 159100 181121 153953 27168 Taxes on specific services 40853 23983 49658 48168 1490 11442Health Services 2112 0 0 0 0 11443Education services education institute 465 0 0 0 0 11444Education servicesAbroad study 5373 3372 9852 9557 29/g24 11461-Other Taxes on Goods and Services 32451 20611 39806 38611 119/g24 11462Health hazard import 451 0 0 0 0 Taxes on Infrastructure and Vehicles 276733 368021 508383 457882 50501 11451Vehicle Tax (Small Care) 73 52 102 95 7 11452Taxes on Use of Infrastructure 4994 5658 10383 8825 1557 11453Road maintenance and Improvement Duty 75622 95664 140862 119733 21129 11454Road Construction and Maintenance Duty 54044 68329 99555 84621 1493/g23 2 /g3 Heading 2019/20 Actual 2020/21 Revised 2021/22 Estimate Existing Measures New Measures 11455Infrastructure Tax 142000 198320 257482 244608 12874 Taxes on International Trade 1237903 1778417 2217922 2107149 110773 Transaction Customs Duties 1175856 1666695 2088895 1984450 104445 11511Import Duties 1175856 1666695 2088895 1984450 104445 Taxes on export 1124 4627 6160 5975 185 11521Export Duties 1057 2359 3560 3453 107 11522Export service charge 64 2267 2600 2522 78 11522Other export charges / Duties 2 0 0 0 0 Other taxes on International Trade and Transaction 60924 107094 122867 116724 6143 11561Agriculture service charge on imports 55844 95645 108523 103097 5426 11562Other income related to customs 5079 11449 14344 13627 717 Other taxes 1071 3 9 9 0 Registration fee 1061 3 9 9 0 11611Company registration fee 936 0 0 0 0 11612Agency registration fee 22 0 0 0 0 11614Radio/FM operation fees 66 0 0 0 0 11615Television operation fee 34 0 0 0 0 11691Other taxes 3 3 9 9 0 Ownership certificate fee 10 0 0 0 0 11622Fire arms registration 10 0 0 0 0 Non-Tax Revenue 936912 880004 1134067 1100045 34022 Property Income 383314 348557 530012 514112 15900 Interest 54193 73369 103962 100843 3119 14111Interest from financial institution 1217 33 1907 1850 57 14114Interest from service-oriented institutions 52306 71656 99523 96537 2986 14119Interest from other institutions 670 1679 2532 2456 76 Dividends 234641 120728 236149 229065 7084 14121-Dividends from financial institutions 128017 65164 134054 130032 4022 14122Dividends from commercial institutions 41547 3249 12145 11781 364 14124Dividends from service-oriented institutions 64749 51800 89427 86744 2683 14129Dividends from other institutions 328 516 523 508 1/g24 Rent and Royalty 94479 154460 189901 184204 5697 14151Royalty on lease of government property 1913 3101 4354 4224 13/g19 14152Royalty on casino 5877 174 1427 1384 43 14153Royalty from Forest 0 10322 3627 351/g27 109 14154Received by distribution Mines Royalty 0 31690 32138 31174 964 14159Royalties received from other sources 39726 70984 72499 70324 2175 14171Forest Royalty 1619 0 0 0 0 14172Mines Royalty 19 0 0 0 0 14175Royalty from trekking 3 0 0 0 0 14176Royalty from tourism service 6 0 0 0 0 33151Forest Royalty Collection 2361 0 0 0 0 33154Mountaineering Royalty collection 704 0 0 0 0 33155Trekking Royalty collection 2794 0 0 0 0 33345Royalty Tourism service fees collection 0 0 51 49 2 33361Royalty from Forest Sectors 1098 2770 9948 9649 29/g28 33362Royalty Mines and Minerals 8501 12051 20342 19732 610 33364-Royalty from Electricity 28795 15672 30122 29219 90/g22 33365-Royalty from Mountaineering 984 7140 13252 12855 39/g26 33391Royalty from other source (sharing) 78 555 2141 2077 64 Sales of Goods and Services 264221 379217 403843 391728 12115 Sales of Goods and Services 110237 160330 170162 165058 510/g23 14211Sales of Agriculture Product 3162 2968 3548 344/g21 106 14212Sale of Government Property 741 1531 1555 1509 4/g25 14213Sales of other items 1795 4148 5094 4941 153 14214Telephone Services Fee 91091 131811 139758 135566 419/g21 14215Telephone Ownership Fee 13423 19846 20179 19573 60/g25 14216Fee on private water supply 13 21 17 1/g25 1 14217Fee for use of water for irrigation 13 5 11 10 /g20 3 /g3 Heading 2019/20 Actual 2020/21 Revised 2021/22 Estimate Existing Measures New Measures Administrative Fee 131486 176431 189208 183532 5676 14221Court Fee 11145 20371 24708 23966 74/g21 14222Charges for postal services 2586 3230 3566 3459 107 14223Income from education sector 6095 9474 9793 9499 294 14224Exam fee 2657 5856 5921 574/g21 178 14225Income from transport sector 209 735 783 760 23 14226Export Import license fee 1216 3468 4557 442/g19 137 14227Passport fee 30876 38837 39138 37964 1174 14228Visa fee 28762 16176 20500 19885 615 14229Other administrative service fee 47941 78284 80242 77835 2407 Other Administrative Fee 22498 42455 44473 43139 1334 14177Land and building registration fee 663 1409 0 0 0 14178Vehicle Tax 28 0 0 0 0 14179Other revenue (Sharing) 159 0 0 0 0 14251-Company registration fee 8343 19359 20066 19464 602 14252-Agency registration fee 78 82 85 83 /g21 14254 Radio/FM operation fees 240 219 250 24/g22 7 14255 -Television operation fee 1868 3762 4205 4079 126 14257-Weapons license fee 37 73 103 100 3 14261Mines and minerals Fees/g3 0 3 11 1/g19 /g20 14262Electricity related fees 8471 15242 16594 16096 498 14263Water resources and others fees 3 2 3 3 0 14264Forest sector related fees 123 820 890 86/g22 27 14265Another sector income 15 27 41 40 1 14313Guarantee settlement 1959 1294 2053 1992 6/g20 14511Insurance claim related 12 164 170 165 5 33159Other revenue (Sharing) 497 0 0 0 0 Penalties, Fines and Forfeiture 21489 35469 41218 39982 123/g25 Penalties, Fines and Forfeiture 21489 35469 41218 39982 123/g25 14311Judicial penalty, fines and forfeiture 2985 4647 6383 619/g21 191 14312Administrative penalty, fines and forfeiture 18505 30822 34836 3379/g20 1045 Transfers other than grants 5 11 13 13 0 Recurrent transfers 5 11 13 13 0 14411Recurrent transfer 5 11 13 13 0 Miscellaneous Revenue 267883 116751 158980 15421/g20 4769 Other Revenue 267830 116440 158138 153394 4744 14191Tourism fee 22 58 72 69 /g22 14191Trekking fee 0 125 169 164 5 14521Pollution control fee 31135 49383 55181 53526 1655 14529Other revenue 236672 66874 102716 99635 3081 Capital Revenue 53 310 841 816 25 14531Sales of Government Land, Building and Goodwill 53 310 841 816 25 Total Revenue 7937466 9596801 11516004 10761274 754731 Other Receipt 475658 0 0 0 15111Irregularities settlement 151558 0 0 0 15112Release refund 37961 0 0 0 15113Grant refund 285027 0 0 0 32121Last year's cash balance 1113 0 0 0 Total (Revenue/Receipt) 8413124 9596801 11516004 10761274 754731 Revenue Sharing 1001867 1088500 1266931 1012305 254626 Total revenue to be deposited into federal treasury 7411257 8508301 10249073 7912720 2336353 4 /g38/g437/g374/g272/g410/g349/g381/g374/g258/g367/g3/g28/g454/g393/g286/g374/g282/g349/g410/g437/g396/g286/g3/g28/g400/g410/g349/g373/g258/g410/g286/g3 /g38/g349/g400/g272/g258/g367/g3/g122/g286/g258/g396/g3 /g1006/g1004/g1006/g1005/g876/g1006/g1006/g3 /g4/g374/g374/g286/g454/g3/g882/g3/g1007/g3/g3 /g894/g90/g400/g856/g3/g349/g374/g3/g918/g1004/g1004/g1004/g1004/g1004/g895/g3 /g3 /g100/g349/g410/g367/g286/g3 /g1006/g1004/g1006/g1005/g876/g1006/g1006/g3/g28/g400/g410/g349/g373/g258/g410/g286/g3 /g87/g286/g396/g272/g286/g374/g410/g258/g336/g286/g3 /g381/g296/g3/g410/g381/g410/g258/g367/g3 /g286/g400/g410/g349/g373/g258/g410/g286/g400/g3/g100/g381/g410/g258/g367/g3 /g38/g286/g282/g286/g396/g258/g367/g3 /g87/g396/g381/g448/g349/g374/g272/g286/g3/g62/g381/g272/g258/g367/g3 /g39/g381/g448/g286/g396/g374/g373/g286/g374/g410/g3 /g39/g28/g69/g28/g90/g4/g62/g3/g87/g104/g17/g62/g47/g18/g3/g94/g28/g90/g115/g47/g18/g28/g3/g1008/g853/g1012/g1008/g853/g1004/g1008/g853/g1012/g1009/g3 /g1007/g853/g1004/g1005/g853/g1004/g1005/g853/g1012/g1010/g3 /g1011/g1004/g853/g1005/g1011/g853/g1008/g1010/g3 /g1005/g853/g1005/g1006/g853/g1012/g1009/g853/g1009/g1007/g3 /g1006/g1013/g856/g1007/g1012/g3 /g28/g454/g286/g272/g437/g410/g349/g448/g286/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g62/g286/g336/g349/g400/g367/g258/g410/g349/g448/g286/g3/g75/g396/g336/g258/g374/g400/g853/g3/g38/g349/g374/g258/g374/g272/g349/g258/g367/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g38/g381/g396/g286/g349/g336/g374/g3/g4/g296/g296/g258/g349/g396/g400/g3/g1009/g1011/g853/g1013/g1012/g853/g1005/g1009/g3 /g1009/g1011/g853/g1013/g1012/g853/g1005/g1009/g3/g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g28/g454/g410/g286/g396/g374/g258/g367/g3/g28/g272/g381/g374/g381/g373/g349/g272/g3/g4/g400/g400/g349/g400/g410/g258/g374/g272/g286/g3/g1007/g853/g1009/g1009/g853/g1010/g1004/g3 /g1007/g853/g1009/g1009/g853/g1010/g1004/g3 /g1004/g3/g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g39/g286/g374/g286/g396/g258/g367/g3/g400/g286/g396/g448/g349/g272/g286/g400/g3/g1005/g853/g1008/g1007/g853/g1009/g1005/g853/g1007/g1012/g3 /g1005/g853/g1008/g1005/g853/g1010/g1009/g853/g1010/g1007/g3/g1004/g3 /g1005/g853/g1012/g1009/g853/g1011/g1009/g3/g3/g3 /g17/g258/g400/g349/g272/g3/g39/g286/g374/g286/g396/g258/g367/g3/g94/g286/g396/g448/g349/g272/g286/g3/g1005/g853/g1004/g1004/g853/g1004/g1004/g3 /g1005/g853/g1004/g1004/g853/g1004/g1004/g3 /g1004/g3/g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g39/g286/g374/g286/g396/g258/g367/g3/g90/g286/g400/g286/g258/g396/g272/g346/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g24/g286/g448/g286/g367/g381/g393/g373/g286/g374/g410/g3/g94/g286/g396/g448/g349/g272/g286/g3/g1008/g853/g1013/g1012/g853/g1011/g1011/g3 /g1006/g853/g1011/g1005/g853/g1013/g1013/g3 /g1006/g853/g1006/g1010/g853/g1011/g1012/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g75/g410/g346/g286/g396/g3/g39/g286/g374/g286/g396/g258/g367/g3/g94/g286/g396/g448/g349/g272/g286/g3/g1012/g853/g1011/g1004/g853/g1004/g1005/g3 /g1011/g853/g1007/g1008/g853/g1005/g1005/g3 /g1005/g853/g1011/g1008/g3 /g1005/g853/g1007/g1008/g853/g1005/g1010/g3/g3/g3 /g87/g437/g271/g367/g349/g272/g3/g24/g286/g271/g410/g3/g100/g396/g258/g374/g400/g258/g272/g410/g349/g381/g374/g400/g3/g1012/g1009/g853/g1010/g1010/g853/g1007/g1012/g3 /g1012/g1009/g853/g1010/g1010/g853/g1007/g1012/g3 /g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g100/g396/g258/g374/g400/g296/g286/g396/g400/g3/g17/g286/g410/g449/g286/g286/g374/g3/g24/g349/g296/g296/g286/g396/g286/g374/g410/g3/g62/g286/g448/g286/g367/g400/g3/g381/g296/g3/g336/g381/g448/g286/g396/g374/g373/g286/g374/g410/g3/g1005/g853/g1011/g1012/g853/g1010/g1008/g853/g1009/g1010/g3 /g1005/g853/g1005/g1004/g853/g1004/g1004/g3 /g1010/g1011/g853/g1012/g1012/g853/g1013/g1008/g3 /g1005/g853/g1004/g1013/g853/g1010/g1009/g853/g1010/g1006/g3/g3/g3 /g24/g28/g38/g28/g69/g94/g28/g3 /g1009/g1006/g853/g1005/g1005/g853/g1004/g1008/g3 /g1009/g1006/g853/g1005/g1005/g853/g1004/g1008/g3 /g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g1007/g856/g1005/g1010/g3 /g68/g349/g367/g349/g410/g258/g396/g455/g3/g24/g286/g296/g286/g374/g400/g286/g3/g1008/g1013/g853/g1010/g1009/g853/g1006/g1009/g3 /g1008/g1013/g853/g1010/g1009/g853/g1006/g1009/g3 /g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g18/g349/g448/g349/g367/g3/g24/g286/g296/g286/g374/g400/g286/g3 /g1006/g853/g1008/g1009/g853/g1005/g1011/g3 /g1006/g853/g1008/g1009/g853/g1005/g1011/g3 /g1004/g3/g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g24/g286/g296/g286/g374/g400/g286/g882/g3/g69/g381/g410/g3/g18/g367/g258/g400/g400/g349/g296/g349/g286/g282/g3/g28/g367/g400/g286/g449/g346/g286/g396/g286/g3/g1010/g1006/g3 /g1010/g1006/g3 /g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g87/g104/g17/g62/g47/g18/g3/g75/g90/g24/g28/g90/g3/g4/g69/g24/g3/g94/g4/g38/g28/g100/g122/g3/g1009/g1012/g853/g1004/g1012/g853/g1006/g1009/g3 /g1009/g1012/g853/g1004/g1012/g853/g1006/g1009/g3 /g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g1007/g856/g1009/g1007/g3 /g87/g381/g367/g349/g272/g286/g3/g94/g286/g396/g448/g349/g272/g286/g400/g3/g1008/g1006/g853/g1005/g1010/g853/g1007/g1010/g3 /g1008/g1006/g853/g1005/g1010/g853/g1007/g1010/g3 /g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g38/g349/g396/g286/g3/g87/g396/g381/g410/g286/g272/g410/g349/g381/g374/g3/g94/g286/g396/g448/g349/g272/g286/g400/g3/g1005/g853/g1009/g1011/g3 /g1005/g853/g1009/g1011/g3/g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g62/g258/g449/g3/g18/g381/g437/g396/g410/g400/g3 /g1012/g853/g1011/g1009/g853/g1007/g1012/g3 /g1012/g853/g1011/g1009/g853/g1007/g1012/g3 /g1004/g3/g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g87/g396/g349/g400/g381/g374/g400/g3 /g1006/g853/g1006/g1010/g853/g1004/g1010/g3 /g1006/g853/g1006/g1010/g853/g1004/g1010/g3 /g1004/g3/g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g90/g3/g87/g437/g271/g367/g349/g272/g3/g75/g396/g282/g286/g396/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g94/g258/g296/g286/g410/g455/g3/g1009/g853/g1010/g1009/g3 /g1009/g853/g1010/g1009/g3/g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g87/g437/g271/g367/g349/g272/g3/g75/g396/g282/g286/g396/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g94/g258/g296/g286/g410/g455/g882/g3/g69/g381/g410/g3/g18/g367/g258/g400/g400/g349/g296/g349/g286/g282/g3/g28/g367/g400/g286/g449/g346/g286/g396/g286/g3/g1008/g853/g1012/g1007/g853/g1006/g1007/g3 /g1008/g853/g1012/g1007/g853/g1006/g1007/g3 /g1004/g3/g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g28/g18/g75/g69/g75/g68/g47/g18/g3/g4/g38/g38/g4/g47/g90/g94/g3 /g1008/g853/g1008/g1006/g853/g1004/g1013/g853/g1007/g1013/g3 /g1008/g853/g1005/g1005/g853/g1008/g1013/g853/g1006/g1010/g3 /g1005/g1008/g853/g1010/g1007/g853/g1005/g1006/g3 /g1005/g1009/g853/g1013/g1011/g853/g1004/g1005/g3/g1006/g1010/g856/g1012/g1007/g3 /g39/g286/g374/g286/g396/g258/g367/g3/g28/g272/g381/g374/g381/g373/g349/g272/g853/g3/g18/g381/g373/g373/g286/g396/g272/g349/g258/g367/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g62/g258/g271/g381/g437/g396/g3/g1006/g1004/g853/g1012/g1006/g853/g1008/g1013/g3 /g1005/g1010/g853/g1010/g1007/g853/g1005/g1006/g3 /g1009/g1004/g3 /g1008/g853/g1005/g1012/g853/g1012/g1011/g3/g3/g3 /g4/g336/g396/g349/g272/g437/g367/g410/g437/g396/g286/g853/g3/g296/g381/g396/g286/g400/g410/g396/g455/g853/g3/g296/g349/g400/g346/g349/g374/g336/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g346/g437/g374/g410/g349/g374/g336/g853/g3/g47/g396/g396/g349/g336/g258/g410/g349/g381/g374/g3/g1005/g853/g1004/g1007/g853/g1004/g1011/g853/g1004/g1009/g3 /g1012/g1012/g853/g1006/g1005/g853/g1013/g1013/g3 /g1012/g853/g1009/g1007/g853/g1013/g1009/g3 /g1010/g853/g1007/g1005/g853/g1005/g1005/g3/g3/g3 /g38/g437/g286/g367/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g286/g374/g286/g396/g336/g455/g3/g1012/g1006/g853/g1012/g1006/g853/g1013/g1005/g3 /g1012/g1006/g853/g1005/g1005/g853/g1013/g1008/g3 /g1009/g853/g1013/g1009/g3 /g1010/g1009/g853/g1004/g1006/g3/g3/g3 /g68/g349/g374/g349/g374/g336/g853/g3/g373/g258/g374/g437/g296/g258/g272/g410/g437/g396/g349/g374/g336/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g272/g381/g374/g400/g410/g396/g437/g272/g410/g349/g381/g374/g3/g1005/g853/g1011/g1013/g853/g1008/g1006/g853/g1009/g1012/g3 /g1005/g853/g1011/g1005/g853/g1006/g1009/g853/g1013/g1012/g3 /g1010/g853/g1004/g1006/g853/g1007/g1006/g3 /g1006/g853/g1005/g1008/g853/g1006/g1012/g3/g3/g3 /g100/g396/g258/g374/g400/g393/g381/g396/g410/g3 /g1005/g1006/g853/g1013/g1004/g853/g1004/g1011/g3 /g1005/g1006/g853/g1013/g1004/g853/g1004/g1011/g3 /g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g18/g381/g373/g373/g437/g374/g349/g272/g258/g410/g349/g381/g374/g3 /g1011/g853/g1007/g1012/g853/g1012/g1013/g3 /g1011/g853/g1007/g1012/g853/g1012/g1013/g3 /g1004/g3/g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g75/g410/g346/g286/g396/g3/g349/g374/g282/g437/g400/g410/g396/g349/g286/g400/g3/g1011/g853/g1012/g1008/g853/g1008/g1006/g3 /g1009/g853/g1009/g1012/g853/g1005/g1010/g3 /g1004/g3 /g1006/g853/g1006/g1010/g853/g1006/g1010/g3/g3/g3 /g90/g286/g400/g286/g258/g396/g272/g346/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g24/g286/g448/g286/g367/g381/g393/g373/g286/g374/g410/g882/g3/g28/g272/g381/g374/g381/g373/g349/g272/g3/g4/g296/g296/g258/g349/g396/g400/g3/g1006/g853/g1009/g1009/g853/g1013/g1006/g3 /g1006/g853/g1009/g1009/g853/g1013/g1006/g3 /g1004/g3/g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g28/g272/g381/g374/g381/g373/g349/g272/g3/g4/g296/g296/g258/g349/g396/g400/g882/g3/g69/g381/g410/g3/g18/g367/g258/g400/g400/g349/g296/g349/g286/g282/g3/g28/g367/g400/g286/g449/g346/g286/g396/g286/g3/g1006/g1009/g853/g1006/g1009/g853/g1004/g1010/g3 /g1006/g1008/g853/g1012/g1007/g853/g1005/g1013/g3 /g1008/g1004/g3 /g1008/g1005/g853/g1008/g1011/g3 /g3/g3 /g28/g69/g115/g47/g90/g75/g69/g68/g28/g69/g100/g4/g62/g3/g87/g90/g75/g100/g28/g18/g100/g47/g75/g69/g3/g1005/g1006/g853/g1009/g1012/g853/g1006/g1010/g3 /g1005/g1005/g853/g1012/g1004/g853/g1007/g1006/g3 /g1006/g1009/g853/g1004/g1013/g3 /g1009/g1006/g853/g1012/g1009/g3/g1004/g856/g1011/g1010/g3 /g116/g258/g400/g410/g286/g3/g68/g258/g374/g258/g336/g286/g373/g286/g374/g410/g3/g1007/g853/g1004/g1011/g853/g1004/g1007/g3 /g1007/g853/g1004/g1010/g853/g1007/g1007/g3 /g1011/g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g94/g286/g449/g286/g396/g258/g336/g286/g3/g68/g258/g374/g258/g336/g286/g373/g286/g374/g410/g3/g1006/g853/g1005/g1007/g853/g1005/g1005/g3 /g1006/g853/g1005/g1006/g853/g1004/g1012/g3 /g1005/g853/g1004/g1007/g3/g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g87/g396/g381/g410/g286/g272/g410/g349/g381/g374/g3/g381/g296/g3/g17/g349/g381/g282/g349/g448/g286/g396/g400/g349/g410/g455/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g94/g381/g349/g367/g3/g18/g381/g374/g400/g286/g396/g448/g258/g410/g349/g381/g374/g3/g1005/g1013/g853/g1004/g1004/g3 /g1005/g1013/g853/g1004/g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g90/g286/g400/g286/g258/g396/g272/g346/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g24/g286/g448/g286/g367/g381/g393/g373/g286/g374/g410/g882/g3/g28/g374/g448/g349/g396/g381/g374/g373/g286/g374/g410/g258/g367/g3/g87/g396/g381/g410/g286/g272/g410/g349/g381/g374/g3/g1013/g853/g1012/g1010/g3 /g1013/g853/g1012/g1010/g3/g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g28/g374/g448/g349/g396/g381/g374/g373/g286/g374/g410/g258/g367/g3/g87/g396/g381/g410/g286/g272/g410/g349/g381/g374/g882/g3/g69/g381/g410/g3/g18/g367/g258/g400/g400/g349/g296/g349/g286/g282/g3/g28/g367/g400/g286/g449/g346/g286/g396/g286/g3/g1011/g853/g1004/g1013/g853/g1006/g1010/g3 /g1010/g853/g1007/g1007/g853/g1004/g1009/g3 /g1006/g1007/g853/g1007/g1010/g3/g1009/g1006/g853/g1012/g1009/g3/g3/g3 /g44/g75/g104/g94/g47/g69/g39/g3/g4/g69/g24/g3/g18/g75/g68/g68/g104/g69/g47/g100/g122/g3/g4/g68/g28/g69/g47/g100/g47/g28/g94/g3/g1012/g1004/g853/g1008/g1010/g853/g1013/g1011/g3 /g1010/g1011/g853/g1004/g1013/g853/g1007/g1009/g3 /g1010/g853/g1012/g1012/g853/g1008/g1009/g3 /g1010/g853/g1008/g1013/g853/g1005/g1011/g3/g1008/g856/g1012/g1012/g3 /g44/g381/g437/g400/g349/g374/g336/g3/g24/g286/g448/g286/g367/g381/g393/g373/g286/g374/g410/g3/g1006/g1012/g853/g1013/g1008/g853/g1004/g1004/g3 /g1006/g1007/g853/g1004/g1006/g853/g1013/g1009/g3 /g1006/g853/g1009/g1004/g853/g1004/g1004/g3 /g1007/g853/g1008/g1005/g853/g1004/g1009/g3/g3/g3 /g18/g381/g373/g373/g437/g374/g349/g410/g455/g3/g24/g286/g448/g286/g367/g381/g393/g373/g286/g374/g410/g3/g1007/g853/g1007/g1013/g853/g1012/g1013/g3 /g1013/g1009/g853/g1005/g1013/g3/g1004/g3 /g1006/g853/g1008/g1008/g853/g1011/g1004/g3/g3/g3 /g116/g258/g410/g286/g396/g3/g94/g437/g393/g393/g367/g455/g3 /g1008/g1004/g853/g1009/g1013/g853/g1010/g1011/g3 /g1007/g1009/g853/g1009/g1011/g853/g1012/g1004/g3 /g1008/g853/g1007/g1012/g853/g1008/g1009/g3/g1010/g1007/g853/g1008/g1006/g3/g3/g3 /g44/g381/g437/g400/g349/g374/g336/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g18/g381/g373/g373/g437/g374/g349/g410/g455/g3/g4/g373/g286/g374/g349/g410/g349/g286/g400/g882/g3/g69/g381/g410/g3/g18/g367/g258/g400/g400/g349/g296/g349/g286/g282/g3/g28/g367/g400/g286/g449/g346/g286/g396/g286/g3/g1011/g853/g1009/g1007/g853/g1008/g1005/g3 /g1011/g853/g1009/g1007/g853/g1008/g1005/g3/g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g44/g28/g4/g62/g100/g44/g3 /g1005/g853/g1008/g1005/g853/g1009/g1009/g853/g1006/g1008/g3 /g1005/g853/g1004/g1012/g853/g1004/g1011/g853/g1006/g1005/g3 /g1010/g853/g1007/g1007/g853/g1011/g1012/g3 /g1006/g1011/g853/g1005/g1008/g853/g1006/g1009/g3/g1012/g856/g1009/g1013/g3 /g68/g286/g282/g349/g272/g258/g367/g3/g87/g396/g381/g282/g437/g272/g410/g400/g853/g3/g4/g393/g393/g367/g349/g258/g374/g272/g286/g400/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g28/g395/g437/g349/g393/g373/g286/g374/g410/g3/g1013/g1006/g853/g1004/g1006/g3 /g1007/g1011/g853/g1006/g1009/g3 /g1006/g1012/g853/g1009/g1005/g3 /g1006/g1010/g853/g1006/g1010/g3 /g3/g3 /g75/g437/g410/g882/g393/g258/g410/g349/g286/g374/g410/g3/g94/g286/g396/g448/g349/g272/g286/g400/g3/g1007/g1013/g853/g1012/g1013/g853/g1012/g1012/g3 /g1007/g1012/g853/g1010/g1007/g853/g1007/g1005/g3 /g1011/g1005/g853/g1008/g1007/g3 /g1009/g1009/g853/g1005/g1008/g3/g3/g3 /g44/g381/g400/g393/g349/g410/g258/g367/g3/g94/g286/g396/g448/g349/g272/g286/g400/g3/g1007/g1013/g853/g1005/g1008/g853/g1006/g1006/g3 /g1006/g1013/g853/g1006/g1010/g853/g1013/g1004/g3 /g1008/g853/g1007/g1010/g853/g1005/g1008/g3 /g1009/g853/g1009/g1005/g853/g1005/g1012/g3/g3/g3 /g87/g437/g271/g367/g349/g272/g3/g44/g286/g258/g367/g410/g346/g3/g94/g286/g396/g448/g349/g272/g286/g400/g3/g1008/g1010/g853/g1010/g1011/g853/g1006/g1007/g3 /g1006/g1009/g853/g1006/g1007/g853/g1006/g1006/g3 /g1012/g1010/g853/g1013/g1010/g3 /g1006/g1004/g853/g1009/g1011/g853/g1004/g1009/g3 /g3/g3 /g90/g286/g400/g286/g258/g396/g272/g346/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g24/g286/g448/g286/g367/g381/g393/g373/g286/g374/g410/g882/g3/g44/g286/g258/g367/g410/g346/g3/g1005/g1006/g853/g1012/g1005/g853/g1010/g1004/g3 /g1005/g1006/g853/g1008/g1010/g853/g1006/g1008/g3 /g1005/g1004/g853/g1011/g1008/g3 /g1006/g1008/g853/g1010/g1006/g3/g3/g3 /g44/g286/g258/g367/g410/g346/g882/g3/g69/g381/g410/g3/g18/g367/g258/g400/g400/g349/g296/g349/g286/g282/g3/g28/g367/g400/g286/g449/g346/g286/g396/g286/g3/g1006/g853/g1005/g1004/g853/g1006/g1013/g3 /g1006/g853/g1005/g1004/g853/g1006/g1013/g3 /g1004/g3/g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g90/g28/g18/g90/g28/g4/g100/g47/g75/g69/g853/g3/g18/g104/g62/g100/g104/g90/g28/g3/g4/g69/g24/g3/g90/g28/g62/g47/g39/g47/g75/g69/g3/g1010/g853/g1010/g1013/g853/g1012/g1013/g3 /g1009/g853/g1011/g1006/g853/g1010/g1012/g3 /g1007/g1013/g853/g1011/g1010/g3/g1009/g1011/g853/g1008/g1009/g3/g1004/g856/g1008/g1005/g3 /g90/g286/g272/g396/g286/g258/g410/g349/g381/g374/g258/g367/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g94/g393/g381/g396/g410/g349/g374/g336/g3/g94/g286/g396/g448/g349/g272/g286/g400/g3/g1006/g853/g1009/g1010/g853/g1004/g1005/g3 /g1006/g853/g1004/g1005/g853/g1006/g1010/g3 /g1007/g1013/g853/g1009/g1006/g3/g1005/g1009/g853/g1006/g1007/g3/g3/g3 /g18/g437/g367/g410/g437/g396/g258/g367/g3/g94/g286/g396/g448/g349/g272/g286/g400/g3/g1007/g853/g1011/g1012/g853/g1008/g1008/g3 /g1007/g853/g1007/g1009/g853/g1013/g1012/g3 /g1006/g1008/g3 /g1008/g1006/g853/g1006/g1006/g3/g3/g3 /g17/g396/g381/g258/g282/g272/g258/g400/g410/g349/g374/g336/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g87/g437/g271/g367/g349/g400/g346/g349/g374/g336/g3/g94/g286/g396/g448/g349/g272/g286/g400/g3/g1007/g1004/g853/g1007/g1005/g3 /g1007/g1004/g853/g1007/g1005/g3 /g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g90/g286/g400/g286/g258/g396/g272/g346/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g24/g286/g448/g286/g367/g381/g393/g373/g286/g374/g410/g882/g3/g18/g437/g367/g410/g437/g396/g286/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g90/g286/g367/g349/g336/g349/g381/g374/g3/g1009/g853/g1005/g1007/g3 /g1009/g853/g1005/g1007/g3/g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g28/g24/g104/g18/g4/g100/g47/g75/g69/g3 /g1005/g853/g1012/g1004/g853/g1004/g1008/g853/g1005/g1005/g3 /g1010/g1004/g853/g1005/g1004/g853/g1010/g1011/g3 /g1009/g853/g1004/g1006/g853/g1007/g1008/g3 /g1005/g853/g1005/g1008/g853/g1013/g1005/g853/g1005/g1004/g3/g1005/g1004/g856/g1013/g1007/g3 /g87/g396/g286/g882/g393/g396/g349/g373/g258/g396/g455/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g87/g396/g349/g373/g258/g396/g455/g3/g28/g282/g437/g272/g258/g410/g349/g381/g374/g3/g1010/g1004/g853/g1008/g1008/g853/g1008/g1010/g3 /g1009/g1010/g853/g1009/g1010/g3 /g1004/g3 /g1009/g1013/g853/g1012/g1011/g853/g1013/g1004/g3/g3/g3 /g94/g286/g272/g381/g374/g282/g258/g396/g455/g3/g28/g282/g437/g272/g258/g410/g349/g381/g374/g3/g1005/g1010/g853/g1011/g1013/g853/g1006/g1009/g3 /g1004/g3/g1004/g3 /g1005/g1010/g853/g1011/g1013/g853/g1006/g1009/g3/g3/g3 /g28/g282/g437/g272/g258/g410/g349/g381/g374/g3/g69/g381/g410/g3/g24/g286/g296/g349/g374/g258/g271/g367/g286/g3/g271/g455/g3/g62/g286/g448/g286/g367/g882/g3/g69/g381/g374/g3/g38/g381/g396/g373/g258/g367/g3/g28/g282/g437/g272/g258/g410/g349/g381/g374/g3/g1008/g1010/g853/g1012/g1005/g853/g1010/g1013/g3 /g1007/g853/g1009/g1009/g853/g1008/g1004/g3 /g1009/g853/g1004/g1006/g853/g1007/g1008/g3 /g1007/g1012/g853/g1006/g1007/g853/g1013/g1009/g3/g3/g3 /g94/g437/g271/g400/g349/g282/g349/g258/g396/g455/g3/g94/g286/g396/g448/g349/g272/g286/g400/g3/g410/g381/g3/g28/g282/g437/g272/g258/g410/g349/g381/g374/g3/g1009/g1004/g853/g1013/g1013/g853/g1009/g1008/g3 /g1009/g1004/g853/g1013/g1013/g853/g1009/g1008/g3 /g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g90/g286/g400/g286/g258/g396/g272/g346/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g24/g286/g448/g286/g367/g381/g393/g373/g286/g374/g410/g882/g3/g28/g282/g437/g272/g258/g410/g349/g381/g374/g3/g1006/g853/g1004/g1009/g3 /g1006/g853/g1004/g1009/g3/g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g28/g282/g437/g272/g258/g410/g349/g381/g374/g882/g3/g69/g381/g410/g3/g18/g367/g258/g400/g400/g349/g296/g349/g286/g282/g3/g28/g367/g400/g286/g449/g346/g286/g396/g286/g3/g1008/g853/g1013/g1011/g853/g1005/g1006/g3 /g1008/g853/g1013/g1011/g853/g1005/g1006/g3 /g1004/g3/g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g94/g75/g18/g47/g4/g62/g3/g87/g90/g75/g100/g28/g18/g100/g47/g75/g69/g3/g1005/g853/g1012/g1013/g853/g1012/g1013/g853/g1010/g1011/g3 /g1005/g853/g1012/g1009/g853/g1007/g1009/g853/g1007/g1005/g3/g1006/g1009/g3 /g1008/g853/g1009/g1008/g853/g1005/g1005/g3/g1005/g1005/g856/g1009/g1007/g3 /g104/g374/g286/g373/g393/g367/g381/g455/g373/g286/g374/g410/g3 /g1011/g853/g1008/g1008/g853/g1011/g1010/g3 /g1007/g853/g1011/g1006/g853/g1006/g1012/g3 /g1004/g3 /g1007/g853/g1011/g1006/g853/g1008/g1012/g3/g3/g3 /g94/g381/g272/g349/g258/g367/g3/g28/g454/g272/g367/g437/g400/g349/g381/g374/g3/g1010/g853/g1007/g1012/g3 /g1010/g853/g1007/g1012/g3/g1004/g3 /g1004/g3 /g3/g3 /g94/g381/g272/g349/g258/g367/g3/g87/g396/g381/g410/g286/g272/g410/g349/g381/g374/g882/g3/g90/g286/g400/g286/g258/g396/g272/g346/g3/g258/g374/g282/g3/g24/g286/g448/g286/g367/g381/g393/g373/g286/g374/g410/g3/g1010/g1008/g853/g1012/g1013/g3 /g1005/g1006/g853/g1006/g1011/g3 /g1004/g3 /g1009/g1006/g853/g1010/g1006/g3/g3/g3 /g94/g381/g272/g349/g258/g367/g3/g393/g396/g381/g410/g286/g272/g410/g349/g381/g374/g3/g69/g381/g410/g3/g18/g367/g258/g400/g400/g349/g296/g349/g286/g282/g3/g28/g367/g400/g286/g449/g346/g286/g396/g286/g3/g1005/g853/g1012/g1005/g853/g1011/g1007/g853/g1010/g1008/g3 /g1005/g853/g1012/g1005/g853/g1008/g1008/g853/g1007/g1012/g3/g1006/g1009/g3/g1006/g1013/g853/g1004/g1005/g3/g3/g3 /g39/g396/g258/g374/g282/g3/g100/g381/g410/g258/g367/g3 /g1005/g1010/g853/g1008/g1011/g853/g1009/g1011/g853/g1010/g1011/g3 /g1005/g1006/g853/g1010/g1004/g853/g1012/g1009/g853/g1013/g1009/g3 /g1005/g853/g1004/g1007/g853/g1011/g1004/g853/g1006/g1009/g3 /g1006/g853/g1012/g1007/g853/g1004/g1005/g853/g1008/g1011/g3/g1005/g1004/g1004/g3 /g3 5 Administrative Expenditure Estimate (Including Financing) Fiscal Year/g32021/22 Annex 4 (Rs. in '00000)/g3 Organization Grand T otal Federal Province Local Government Percentage of total estimates Total Re-Current /Capital Financial 101/g3President 14,59 14,59 14,59 0 0 0 0.01 102/g3Deputy President 4,89 4,89 4,89 0 0 0 0 103/g3Chief of Provinces 20,68 20,68 20,68 0 0 0 0.01 202/g3Federal Parliament 1,25,11 1,25,11 1,25,11 0 0 0 0.08 204/g3Courts 6,91,98 6,91,98 6,91,98 0 0 0 0.42 206/g3Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority 1,31,62 1,31,62 1,31,62 0 0 0 0.08 208/g3Office of the Auditor General 56,76 56,76 56,76 0 0 0 0.03 210/g3Public Service Commission 90,90 90,90 90,90 0 0 0 0.06 212/g3Election Commission 55,44 55,44 55,44 0 0 0 0.03 214/g3National Human Rights Commission 26,16 26,16 26,16 0 0 0 0.02 218/g3Council of Justice 4,83 4,83 4,83 0 0 0 0 220/g3National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission 8,80 8,80 8,80 0 0 0 0.01 222/g3National Women Commission 10,94 10,94 10,94 0 0 0 0.01 224/g3National Dalit Commission 3,33 3,33 3,33 0 0 0 0 226/g3National Inclusion Commission 3,08 3,08 3,08 0 0 0 0 228/g3Indigenous Nationalities Commission 2,80 2,80 2,80 0 0 0 0 230/g3Madhesi Commission 3,39 3,39 3,39 0 0 0 0 232/g3Tharu Commission 4,46 4,46 4,46 0 0 0 0 234/g3Muslim Commission 4,52 4,52 4,52 0 0 0 0 301/g3Office of Prime Minister and Council of Ministers 4,17,87 4,17,87 4,17,87 0 0 0 0.25 305/g3Ministry of Finance 46,85,75 46,65,75 38,23,75 8,42,00 6,00 14,00 2.84 307/g3Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Supply 13,57,82 11,31,56 11,03,73 27,83 0 2,26,26 0.82 308/g3Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation 1,21,97,81 1,16,40,43 42,18,56 74,21,87 4,92,36 65,02 7.4 311/g3Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs 51,56 51,56 51,56 0 0 0 0.03 312/g3Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development 45,09,89 36,31,37 32,31,37 4,00,00 2,47,66 6,30,86 2.74 313/g3Ministry of Water Supply 43,54,24 39,14,06 25,03,43 14,10,63 4,40,18 0 2.64 314/g3Ministry of Home Affairs 1,66,90,35 1,65,56,19 1,65,56,19 0 0 1,34,16 10.13 325/g3Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation 27,46,92 26,62,59 5,81,74 20,80,85 64 83,69 1.67 326/g3Ministry of Foreign Affairs 7,13,05 7,13,05 7,13,05 0 0 0 0.43 329/g3Ministry of Forest and Environment 14,13,18 12,16,84 12,16,84 0 1,43,24 53,10 0.86 336/g3Ministry of Land Management, Cooperative and Poverty Alleviation 8,21,29 7,68,67 7,18,67 50,00 0 52,62 0.5 337/g3Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport 1,67,18,94 1,63,00,79 1,62,50,79 50,00 4,18,15 0 10.15 340/g3Ministry of Women, Children and Senior Citizen 1,20,05 90,79 90,79 0 25 29,01 0.07 343/g3Ministry of Youth and Sports 2,74,68 2,19,93 2,19,93 0 39,52 15,23 0.17 345/g3Ministry of Defense 51,04,40 51,04,40 51,04,40 0 0 0 3.1 347/g3Ministry of Urban Development 41,20,25 33,43,45 32,11,53 1,31,92 2,50,00 5,26,80 2.5 350/g3Ministry of Education, Science and Technology 1,80,04,11 60,10,67 60,10,67 0 5,02,34 1,14,91,10 10.93 358/g3Ministry of Communications and Information Technology 7,73,85 7,73,85 7,23,85 50,00 0 0 0.47 365/g3Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration 30,83,25 20,03,67 20,03,67 0 4,12,69 6,66,89 1.87 370/g3Ministry of Health and Population 1,22,78,99 90,75,45 90,75,45 0 6,33,78 25,69,76 7.45 371/g3Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security 14,00,46 6,08,61 6,08,61 0 50 7,91,35 0.85 6 Organization Grand T otal Federal Province Local Government Percentage of total estimates Total Re-Current /Capital Financial 391/g3National Planning Commission 3,20,14 3,20,14 3,20,14 0 0 0 0.19 392/g3National Reconstruction Authority 33,55,13 33,55,13 33,55,13 0 0 0 2.04 502/g3MOFDomestic Debt Service 85,07,09 85,07,09 36,75,19 48,31,90 0 0 5.16 503/g3MOFExternal Debt Service (Multilateral) 33,22,62 33,22,62 5,66,04 27,56,58 0 0 2.02 504/g3MOFExternal Debt Service (Bilateral) 9,52,39 9,52,39 2,08,21 7,44,18 0 0 0.58 601/g3MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits 91,20,31 91,20,31 91,20,31 0 0 0 5.54 602/g3MOF Miscellaneous 83,42,44 83,42,44 83,42,44 0 0 0 5.06 701/g3Province 67,82,94 0 0 0 67,82,94 0 4.12 801/g3Local Level 1,09,51,62 0 0 0 0 1,09,51,62 6.65 Grand Total 16,47,57,67 12,60,85,95 10,52,88,19 2,07,97,76 1,03,70,25 2,83,01,47 100 /g3 7 Expenditure Estimates by Line Item Wise Details Fiscal Year/g32021/22 Annex – 5 (Rs. in '00000)/g3 Economic Code Cash Commodity and Direct Payment Grand Total Revenue Internal Loan Foreign aid cash Cash Total Recurrent 7,56,88,39 1,59,76,26 67,61,06 9,84,25,71 20,10,17 10,04,35,88 /g321100/g3Wages and salaries 1,44,43,38 0 5,29 1,44,48,67 2 1,44,48,69 /g3/g321111/g3Employee Salary 1,01,04,75 0 3,28 1,01,08,03 0 1,01,08,03 /g3/g321112/g3Official Salary 1,71,80 0 0 1,71,80 0 1,71,80 /g3/g321121/g3Uniform 4,94,72 0 8 4,94,80 0 4,94,80 /g3/g321122/g3Meal 13,56,52 0 0 13,56,52 0 13,56,52 /g3/g321123/g3Medical Allowance 10,31,91 0 0 10,31,91 0 10,31,91 /g3/g321131/g3Local Allowances 2,10,67 0 19 2,10,86 0 2,10,86 /g3/g321132/g3Dearness Allowance 7,11,99 0 16 7,12,15 0 7,12,15 /g3/g321133/g3Field Allowance 1,73 0 0 1,73 0 1,73 /g3/g321134/g3Employee Meeting Allowance 24,36 0 1,25 25,61 2 25,63 /g3/g321135/g3Employee Incentive and Award 15,28 0 23 15,51 0 15,51 /g3/g321136/g3Foreign Allowance 84,00 0 0 84,00 0 84,00 /g3/g321139/g3Other Allowance 1,80,83 0 10 1,80,93 0 1,80,93 /g3/g321141/g3Official Meeting Allowance 11,96 0 0 11,96 0 11,96 /g3/g321142/g3Official Other Facility 39,75 0 0 39,75 0 39,75 /g3/g321149/g3Official Other Allowance 3,11 0 0 3,11 0 3,11 /g321200/g3Social Security Expenses of Employee 3,89,33 0 5 3,89,38 0 3,89,38 /g3/g321212/g3Contributory Pension and Gratuity Fund Expense 1,53,34 0 3 1,53,37 0 1,53,37 /g3/g321213/g3Contributory Insurance Fund Expense 2,23,34 0 2 2,23,36 0 2,23,36 /g3/g321214/g3Employee Welfare Fund 29 0 0 29 0 29 /g3/g321219/g3Other Social Security Expense 2,00 0 0 2,00 0 2,00 /g3/g321222/g3Contributary Pension and Gratuity Fund Expense for Officials 11 0 0 11 0 11 /g3/g321223/g3Contributory Insurance Fund Expense of Officials 10,25 0 0 10,25 0 10,25 /g322100/g3Services Fees 3,62,05 0 4,61 3,66,66 53 3,67,19 /g3/g322111/g3Water and Electricity 2,43,39 0 1,02 2,44,41 38 2,44,79 /g3/g322112/g3Communication 1,18,66 0 3,59 1,22,25 15 1,22,40 /g322200/g3Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets 7,44,89 0 14,51 7,59,40 87 7,60,27 /g3/g322211/g3Fuel (Official) 13,34 0 35 13,69 0 13,69 /g3/g322212/g3Fuel (Office Purpose) 2,75,90 0 5,45 2,81,35 17 2,81,52 /g3/g322213/g3MaintenanceVehicles 1,65,92 0 4,65 1,70,57 36 1,70,93 /g3/g322214/g3Insurance and Renewal Expense 71,02 0 61 71,63 3 71,66 /g3/g322221/g3Operation & Maintenance of Machine 72,98 0 2,58 75,56 1 75,57 /g3/g322231/g3Repair and Maintenance of Constructed Public Properties 51,64 0 64 52,28 9 52,37 /g3/g322291/g3Operation and Maintenance of Other Assets 94,09 0 23 94,32 21 94,53 /g322300/g3Office Materials and Services 4,50,30 0 16,38 4,66,68 2,62 4,69,30 /g3/g322311/g3General Office Expenses 3,11,72 0 8,58 3,20,30 2,00 3,22,30 /g3/g322312/g3Feeds for Animals & Birds 17,20 0 0 17,20 0 17,20 /g3/g322313/g3Books and Materials 4,70 0 6 4,76 0 4,76 /g3/g322314/g3FuelFor Other Purposes 24,67 0 48 25,15 0 25,15 /g3/g322315/g3Newspaper, Printing and Information Publishing Expenses 76,28 0 7,06 83,34 61 83,95 /g3/g322319/g3Operation Expenses of Office 15,73 0 20 15,93 1 15,94 /g322400/g3Services and Consultancy Expenses 8,28,32 0 2,01,41 10,29,73 60,65 10,90,38 /g3/g322411/g3Services and Consultancy Expenses 1,32,45 0 1,86,49 3,18,94 57,77 3,76,71 /g3/g322412/g3Information System and Software Operation Expense 20,66 0 2,93 23,59 9 23,68 /g3/g322413/g3Contract Service Fee 5,68,93 0 9,63 5,78,56 42 5,78,98 /g3/g322419/g3Other Services fee 1,06,28 0 2,36 1,08,64 2,37 1,11,01 /g322500/g3Program Expenses 22,14,31 0 8,25,67 30,39,98 2,38,82 32,78,80 /g3/g322511/g3Employee Training Expense 1,14,34 0 19,55 1,33,89 5,23 1,39,12 /g3/g322512/g3Skill Development and Awareness and Seminar Expense 2,17,45 0 4,05,62 6,23,07 31,21 6,54,28 /g3/g322521/g3Production Materials/Service Expenses 1,13,37 0 63 1,14,00 0 1,14,00 /g3/g322522/g3Program Expenses 17,22,82 0 3,97,18 21,20,00 2,02,38 23,22,38 8 Economic Code Cash Commodity and Direct Payment Grand Total Revenue Internal Loan Foreign aid cash Cash Total /g3/g322529/g3Other Program Expenses 46,33 0 2,69 49,02 0 49,02 /g322600/g3Monitoring, Evaluation & Travelling Expenses 3,07,19 0 19,17 3,26,36 7,93 3,34,29 /g3/g322611/g3Monitoring & Evaluation Expenses 1,32,90 0 15,41 1,48,31 92 1,49,23 /g3/g322612/g3Travelling Expenses 1,61,20 0 3,76 1,64,96 7,01 1,71,97 /g3/g322613/g3Travelling Expenses of VIPs & Delegations 6,12 0 0 6,12 0 6,12 /g3/g322619/g3Other Travelling Expenses 6,97 0 0 6,97 0 6,97 /g322700/g3Miscellaneous Expenses 1,74,75 0 3,97 1,78,72 12 1,78,84 /g3/g322711/g3Miscellaneous Expenses 1,74,75 0 3,97 1,78,72 12 1,78,84 /g324100/g3Interest on Foreign Loan 7,74,25 0 0 7,74,25 0 7,74,25 /g3/g324111/g3Interest on Foreign Loan 7,74,25 0 0 7,74,25 0 7,74,25 /g324200/g3Interest on Internal Loan, Service Fee and Bank Commission 36,75,19 0 0 36,75,19 0 36,75,19 /g3/g324211/g3Interest on Internal Loan 36,75,19 0 0 36,75,19 0 36,75,19 /g325100/g3Subsidies to Public Enterprises 80,00 0 0 80,00 0 80,00 /g3/g325111/g3Operating Subsidy Non Financial Corporations 49,56 0 0 49,56 0 49,56 /g3/g325112/g3Capital Subsidy Non Financial Corporations 30,44 0 0 30,44 0 30,44 /g325200/g3Subsidies to Private Enterprises 10,85 0 6,52 17,37 0 17,37 /g3/g325211/g3Operating Subsidies to Non-Financial Private Enterprises 1,35 0 6,52 7,87 0 7,87 /g3/g325212/g3Capital Subsidies to Non-Financial Private Enterprises 9,50 0 0 9,50 0 9,50 /g325300/g3/g3Other Subsidies 2,82 0 0 2,82 0 2,82 /g3/g325315/g3/g3Other Subsidies 2,82 0 0 2,82 0 2,82 /g326200/g3Grant to International Organizations 50,65 0 0 50,65 0 50,65 /g3/g326211/g3International Membership Fee& Assistance 50,65 0 0 50,65 0 50,65 /g326300/g3Grant to Other Tires of Government 1,60,80,68 1,52,51,26 12,34,72 3,25,66,66 7,89 3,25,74,55 /g3/g326331/g3Equalization Grants 0 1,52,51,26 0 1,52,51,26 0 1,52,51,26 /g3/g326332/g3Conditional Grants (Recurrent) 1,59,74,72 0 12,34,72 1,72,09,44 7,89 1,72,17,33 /g3/g326333/g3Special Grants 1,05,96 0 0 1,05,96 0 1,05,96 /g326400/g3Grant to Social Service 88,02,73 7,25,00 25,45,99 1,20,73,72 5,67,75 1,26,41,47 /g3/g326411/g3Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies, Committees & Boards 30,62 4,00 6 34,68 1,10 35,78 /g3/g326412/g3Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies, Committees & Boards 53,44,24 0 6,81,65 60,25,89 64,90 60,90,79 /g3/g326413/g3Conditional Grant to Other Institutions 5,39,57 0 3,00,02 8,39,59 32,07 8,71,66 /g3/g326421/g3Government Agencies, Committees, BoardsUnconditional Capital Grant 0 7,21,00 0 7,21,00 0 7,21,00 /g3/g326422/g3Government Agencies, Committees, BoardsConditional Capital Grant 25,97,33 0 13,12,57 39,09,90 4,63,59 43,73,49 /g3/g326423/g3Conditional Capital Grant to Other Institutions 2,90,97 0 2,51,69 5,42,66 6,09 5,48,75 /g327100/g3Social Security 1,27,69,31 0 9,60 1,27,78,91 0 1,27,78,91 /g3/g327111/g3Social Security 1,04,37,47 0 0 1,04,37,47 0 1,04,37,47 /g3/g327112/g3Other Social Security 23,31,84 0 9,60 23,41,44 0 23,41,44 /g327200/g3Social Assistance 6,21,58 0 18,42,83 24,64,41 11,21,89 35,86,30 /g3/g327211/g3Scholarships 1,68,02 0 24,95 1,92,97 0 1,92,97 /g3/g327212/g3Rescue, Relief and Rehabilitation Expense 13,29 0 79,40 92,69 0 92,69 /g3/g327213/g3Medicine Purchases 4,40,27 0 17,38,48 21,78,75 11,21,89 33,00,64 /g327300/g3Expenses Related to Social Benefit of Employees 89,14,80 0 8 89,14,88 0 89,14,88 /g3/g327311/g3Pensions and Disability Allowance 66,99,26 0 0 66,99,26 0 66,99,26 /g3/g327312/g3Gratuity 2,17,84 0 8 2,17,92 0 2,17,92 /g3/g327313/g3Accumulated Leave of Retirees 11,90,67 0 0 11,90,67 0 11,90,67 /g3/g327314/g3Medical Expenses of Retirees 7,41,94 0 0 7,41,94 0 7,41,94 /g3/g327315/g3Benefit and Assistance for Deceased Employees 65,09 0 0 65,09 0 65,09 /g328100/g3Property Related Expenditure 2,52,53 0 6,26 2,58,79 1,08 2,59,87 /g3/g328141/g3Land Rent 1,17 0 0 1,17 0 1,17 /g3/g328142/g3House Rent 2,31,69 0 5,35 2,37,04 97 2,38,01 /g3/g328143/g3Vehicle and Machinery Rent 12,50 0 88 13,38 11 13,49 /g3/g328149/g3Other Rent 7,17 0 3 7,20 0 7,20 /g328200/g3Refunds 98,02 0 0 98,02 0 98,02 /g3/g328211/g3Revenue Refund 48,01 0 0 48,01 0 48,01 /g3/g328212/g3Judicial Refund 11,01 0 0 11,01 0 11,01 /g3/g328219/g3Other Refund 39,00 0 0 39,00 0 39,00 /g328900/g3Recurrent Contingencies 36,40,46 0 24,00 36,64,46 0 36,64,46 9 Economic Code Cash Commodity and Direct Payment Grand Total Revenue Internal Loan Foreign aid cash Cash Total /g3/g328911/g3Recurrent Contingencies 36,40,46 0 24,00 36,64,46 0 36,64,46 Capital 1,61,01,63 85,43,44 1,34,19,02 3,80,64,09 54,59,94 4,35,24,03 /g326300/g3Grant to Other Tires of Government 4,86,02 51,76,85 3,79,76 60,42,63 54,54 60,97,17 /g3/g326334/g3Complementary Grants 0 12,37,29 0 12,37,29 0 12,37,29 /g3/g326336/g3Conditional Grants (Capital ) 4,86,02 27,99,51 3,79,76 36,65,29 54,54 37,19,83 /g3/g326337/g3Special Grants (Capital ) 0 11,40,05 0 11,40,05 0 11,40,05 /g331100/g3Fixed Assets 1,40,38,40 33,66,54 1,26,16,48 3,00,21,42 54,05,40 3,54,26,82 /g3/g331111/g3Building Purchase 37,89 0 0 37,89 0 37,89 /g3/g331112/g3Building Construction 25,66,67 0 28,71,81 54,38,48 2,99,08 57,37,56 /g3/g331113/g3Capital Formation Building 21,41 0 3,69 25,10 0 25,10 /g3/g331114/g3Land Pulling 30,35 0 0 30,35 0 30,35 /g3/g331121/g3Vehicles 88,83 0 86,90 1,75,73 55 1,76,28 /g3/g331122/g3Plant & Machinery 8,38,87 0 4,09,96 12,48,83 31,22 12,80,05 /g3/g331123/g3Furniture and Fixture 1,79,91 0 6,27 1,86,18 46 1,86,64 /g3/g331131/g3Livestock and Horticulture Development Expenses 1,27 0 0 1,27 0 1,27 /g3/g331132/g3Research and Development Expneces 13,27 0 13,79 27,06 35,50 62,56 /g3/g331134/g3Software Development and Procurement Expences 1,10,13 0 9,41 1,19,54 5,72 1,25,26 /g3/g331135/g3Capital Consultancy 7,98,58 31,75 6,81,51 15,11,84 3,64,95 18,76,79 /g3/g331141/g3Security Equipment Purchase Expense 2,64,56 0 0 2,64,56 0 2,64,56 /g3/g331151/g3Road and Bridge Construction 48,43,54 7,41,90 51,43,95 1,07,29,39 37,38,38 1,44,67,77 /g3/g331152/g3Railway and Airport Construction 1,93,35 1,70,00 2,07,20 5,70,55 0 5,70,55 /g3/g331153/g3Electricity Structure Construction 74,86 0 1,95,18 2,70,04 6,38,07 9,08,11 /g3/g331154/g3Embryo and Barrier Construction 3,24,22 1,18,62 3,94,71 8,37,55 15,75 8,53,30 /g3/g331155/g3Irrigation Structure Construction 2,41,80 5,35,84 6,66,28 14,43,92 0 14,43,92 /g3/g331156/g3Drinking Water Structure Construction 6,20,10 5,34,34 6,64,83 18,19,27 81,50 19,00,77 /g3/g331157/g3Forest and Environment Conservation 87,99 0 33,30 1,21,29 3,50 1,24,79 /g3/g331158/g3Sanitation Structure Construction 2,00,81 24,95 1,34,40 3,60,16 1,84,50 5,44,66 /g3/g331159/g3Public ConstructionOthers 21,21,91 12,09,14 10,47,29 43,78,34 6,22 43,84,56 /g3/g331161/g3House Improvement Expense 84,50 0 12,53 97,03 0 97,03 /g3/g331171/g3Capital Improvement Expenses of Public Construction 2,93,58 0 33,47 3,27,05 0 3,27,05 /g331400/g3Natural Assets 13,73,57 5 4,18,50 17,92,12 0 17,92,12 /g3/g331411/g3Land Acquisition 13,73,44 5 4,14,30 17,87,79 0 17,87,79 /g3/g331441/g3License Procurement Expenses 13 0 4,20 4,33 0 4,33 /g331500/g3Capital Contingencies 2,03,64 0 4,28 2,07,92 0 2,07,92 /g3/g331511/g3Capital Contingencies 2,03,64 0 4,28 2,07,92 0 2,07,92 Finance 1,07,01,71 4,80,30 14,38,73 1,26,20,74 81,77,02 2,07,97,76 /g332100/g3Domestic Financial Assets 23,34,05 4,80,30 14,38,73 42,53,08 81,77,02 1,24,30,10 /g3/g332142/g3Loan Investment to Public Enterprise 9,39,92 4,80,30 13,05,73 27,25,95 79,24,52 1,06,50,47 /g3/g332151/g3Share Investments to Public Enterprise 13,94,13 0 1,33,00 15,27,13 2,52,50 17,79,63 /g332200/g3Net Internal Loan 35,00 0 0 35,00 0 35,00 /g3/g332251/g3Foreign Share Investments 35,00 0 0 35,00 0 35,00 /g333100/g3Domestic Net Borrowing 48,31,90 0 0 48,31,90 0 48,31,90 /g3/g333195/g3Amortizations 48,31,90 0 0 48,31,90 0 48,31,90 /g333200/g3External Net Borrowing 35,00,76 0 0 35,00,76 0 35,00,76 /g3/g333242/g3External Amortization 35,00,76 0 0 35,00,76 0 35,00,76 Total Expense 10,24,91,73 2,50,00,00 2,16,18,81 14,91,10,54 1,56,47,13 16,47,57,67 /g3 10 Estimate of Regular and Development Fiscal Year/g32021/22 Annex 6 ( Rs. in '00000) Title 2020/21 Estimate 2021/22 Estimate Growth percentage Regular 7,89,65,94 9,03,03,26 14.36 /g31 Committed Expenditure (Employee Salary, Pensions, Social Security) 3,28,53,01 3,73,04,20 13.55 /g32 Operational and Program Expenditure 87,61,61 1,33,66,03 52.55 /g33 Conditional Recurrent Grants 65,69,08 70,58,48 7.45 /g34 Equalization Grants 1,45,25,00 1,52,51,26 5 /g35 Conditional Grants (Fiscal Transfer) 1,62,57,24 1,72,17,33 5.91 /g36 Special Grants 0 1,05,96 100 Development 5,84,47,77 6,16,37,31 5.46 /g37 Capital Expenditure 3,52,91,75 3,74,26,86 6.05 /g38 Capital Grants 72,66,66 56,83,18 -21.79 /g39 Capital Investment 1,04,08,47 1,24,30,10 19.42 /g310 Fiscal Transfer (Conditional grant) 34,87,50 37,19,83 6.66 /g311 Fiscal Transfer (Special grant) 9,96,72 11,40,05 14.38 /g312 Fiscal Transfer (Complementary grant) 9,96,67 12,37,29 24.14 Principle Repayment and Interest Payment 1,00,50,83 1,28,17,10 27.52 /g313 Interest Payment 1,00,50,83 1,28,17,10 27.52 Grand Total 14,74,64,54 16,47,57,67 11.73 /g3 11 /g40/g91/g83/g72/g81/g71/g76/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g69/g92/g3/g40/g70/g82/g81/g82/g80/g76/g70/g3/g43/g72/g68/g71/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g47/g76/g81/g72/g3/g44/g87/g72/g80/g3/g11/g44/g81/g70/g79/g88/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g41/g76/g81/g68/g81/g70/g76/g81/g74/g12/g3 /g41/g76/g86/g70/g68/g79/g3/g60/g72/g68/g85/g3 /g21/g19/g21/g20/g18/g21/g21/g3 /g36/g81/g81/g72/g91/g3/g16/g3/g26/g3 /g11/g53/g86/g17/g3/g76/g81/g3/g10/g19/g19/g19/g19/g19/g12/g3 /g3 T itle 2019/20 Actual Expense 2020/21 Revised Estimate 2021/22 Estimate Source Nepal Government Foreign Grant Loan Recurrent 7,76,02,23 8,57,85,45 10,04,35,88 9,16,64,65 28,64,07 59,07,16 /g321000/g3Compensation of Employees 1,17,83,17 1,35,58,98 1,48,38,07 1,48,32,71 3,44 1,92 /g3/g321100/g3Wages and salaries 1,16,67,41 1,31,83,79 1,44,48,69 1,44,43,38 3,42 1,89 /g3/g3/g321110/g3Wages and Salaries in Cash 91,31,56 1,00,58,14 1,02,79,83 1,02,76,55 1,78 1,50 /g3/g3/g3/g321111/g3Employee Salary 90,26,76 98,84,16 1,01,08,03 1,01,04,75 1,78 1,50 /g3/g3/g3/g321112/g3Official Salary 1,04,80 1,73,98 1,71,80 1,71,80 0 0 /g3/g3/g321120/g3Wages and Salaries in Kind 15,41,87 19,01,05 28,83,23 28,83,15 5 3 /g3/g3/g3/g321121/g3Uniform 2,18,53 3,04,54 4,94,80 4,94,72 5 3 /g3/g3/g3/g321122/g3Meal 12,93,84 13,74,74 13,56,52 13,56,52 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g321123/g3Medical Allowance 29,50 2,21,77 10,31,91 10,31,91 0 0 /g3/g3/g321130/g3Employee Allowance 9,73,38 11,74,42 12,30,81 12,28,86 1,59 36 /g3/g3/g3/g321131/g3Local Allowances 73,53 1,94,04 2,10,86 2,10,67 17 2 /g3/g3/g3/g321132/g3Dearness Allowance 5,56,60 6,94,78 7,12,15 7,11,99 10 6 /g3/g3/g3/g321133/g3Field Allowance 1,32 1,50 1,73 1,73 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g321134/g3Employee Meeting Allowance 15,40 19,67 25,63 24,36 1,05 22 /g3/g3/g3/g321135/g3Employee Incentive and Award 79,98 14,37 15,51 15,28 23 0 /g3/g3/g3/g321136/g3Foreign Allowance 73,41 80,91 84,00 84,00 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g321139/g3Other Allowance 1,73,14 1,69,15 1,80,93 1,80,83 4 6 /g3/g3/g321140/g3Employee Allowance and Other Facility 20,60 50,18 54,82 54,82 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g321141/g3Official Meeting Allowance 6,87 9,31 11,96 11,96 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g321142/g3Official Other Facility 11,68 38,12 39,75 39,75 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g321149/g3Official Other Allowance 2,05 2,75 3,11 3,11 0 0 /g3/g321200/g3Social Security Expenses of Employee 1,15,76 3,75,19 3,89,38 3,89,33 2 3 /g3/g3/g321210/g3Social Security Expenses of Employee 1,15,73 3,65,16 3,79,02 3,78,97 2 3 /g3/g3/g3/g321211/g3Social Security Fund Expenses 0 3 0 0 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g321212/g3Contributory Pension and Gratuity Fund Expense 9,90 1,42,89 1,53,37 1,53,34 1 2 /g3/g3/g3/g321213/g3Contributory Insurance Fund Expense 1,05,69 2,20,20 2,23,36 2,23,34 1 1 /g3/g3/g3/g321214/g3Employee Welfare Fund 14 12 29 29 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g321219/g3Other Social Security Expense 0 1,92 2,00 2,00 0 0 /g3/g3/g321220/g3Social Security Expesces of Officials 3 10,03 10,36 10,36 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g321222/g3Contributary Pension and Gratuity Fund Expense for Officials 0 7 11 11 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g321223/g3Contributory Insurance Fund Expense of Officials 2 9,96 10,25 10,25 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g321229/g3Officials Other Social Security Expense 1 0 0 0 0 0 /g322000/g3Use of Goods and Services 34,92,40 55,14,50 64,79,07 50,81,81 6,86,68 7,10,58 /g3/g322100/g3Services Fees 2,50,80 3,41,49 3,67,19 3,62,05 2,42 2,72 /g3/g3/g322110/g3Services Fee 2,50,80 3,41,49 3,67,19 3,62,05 2,42 2,72 /g3/g3/g3/g322111/g3Water and Electricity 1,73,51 2,30,52 2,44,79 2,43,39 72 68 /g3/g3/g3/g322112/g3Communication 77,29 1,10,97 1,22,40 1,18,66 1,70 2,04 /g3/g322200/g3Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets 5,54,37 6,43,11 7,60,27 7,44,89 7,69 7,69 /g3/g3/g322210/g3Operation & Maintenance of Capital Assets 4,22,07 4,77,12 5,37,80 5,26,18 5,54 6,08 /g3/g3/g3/g322211/g3Fuel (Official) 8,61 13,40 13,69 13,34 33 2 /g3/g3/g3/g322212/g3Fuel (Office Purpose) 2,21,89 2,45,02 2,81,52 2,75,90 2,16 3,46 /g3/g3/g3/g322213/g3MaintenanceVehicles 1,40,42 1,49,77 1,70,93 1,65,92 2,68 2,33 /g3/g3/g3/g322214/g3Insurance and Renewal Expense 51,15 68,93 71,66 71,02 37 27 /g3/g3/g322220/g3Operation & Maintenance of Machine 52,56 62,25 75,57 72,98 1,51 1,08 /g3/g3/g3/g322221/g3Operation & Maintenance of Machine 52,56 62,25 75,57 72,98 1,51 1,08 /g3/g3/g322230/g3Repair and Maintenance of Constructed Public Properties 71,66 46,71 52,37 51,64 43 30 /g3/g3/g3/g322231/g3Repair and Maintenance of Constructed Public Properties 71,66 46,71 52,37 51,64 43 30 /g3/g3/g322290/g3Operation and Maintenance of Other Assets 8,08 57,03 94,53 94,09 21 23 /g3/g3/g3/g322291/g3Operation and Maintenance of Other Assets 8,08 57,03 94,53 94,09 21 23 /g3/g322300/g3Office Materials and Services 3,24,30 4,79,71 4,69,30 4,50,30 8,01 10,99 /g3/g3/g322310/g3Office Materials and Services 3,24,30 4,79,71 4,69,30 4,50,30 8,01 10,99 /g3/g3/g3/g322311/g3General Office Expenses 2,40,05 3,38,32 3,22,30 3,11,72 5,30 5,28 /g3/g3/g3/g322312/g3Feeds for Animals & Birds 15,85 18,57 17,20 17,20 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g322313/g3Books and Materials 3,44 4,01 4,76 4,70 5 1 /g3/g3/g3/g322314/g3FuelFor Other Purposes 17,73 21,88 25,15 24,67 10 38 12 Title 2019/20 Actual Expense 2020/21 Revised Estimate 2021/22 Estimate Source Nepal Government Foreign Grant Loan /g3/g3/g3/g322315/g3Newspaper, Printing and Information Publishing Expenses 41,25 84,41 83,95 76,28 2,40 5,27 /g3/g3/g3/g322319/g3Operation Expenses of Office 5,98 12,52 15,94 15,73 16 5 /g3/g322400/g3Services and Consultancy Expenses 9,85,51 11,09,12 10,90,38 8,28,32 1,18,88 1,43,18 /g3/g3/g322410/g3Consultancy and Other Services fee 9,85,51 11,09,12 10,90,38 8,28,32 1,18,88 1,43,18 /g3/g3/g3/g322411/g3Services and Consultancy Expenses 4,16,96 3,45,46 3,76,71 1,32,45 1,11,87 1,32,39 /g3/g3/g3/g322412/g3Information System and Software Operation Expense 14,33 22,84 23,68 20,66 1,07 1,95 /g3/g3/g3/g322413/g3Contract Service Fee 4,40,63 6,41,73 5,78,98 5,68,93 1,81 8,24 /g3/g3/g3/g322419/g3Other Services fee 1,13,59 99,09 1,11,01 1,06,28 4,13 60 /g3/g322500/g3Program Expenses 9,81,30 23,45,17 32,78,80 22,14,31 5,29,86 5,34,63 /g3/g3/g322510/g3Training and Seminar 2,24,57 4,45,82 7,93,40 3,31,79 1,13,77 3,47,84 /g3/g3/g3/g322511/g3Employee Training Expense 71,51 1,12,88 1,39,12 1,14,34 16,33 8,45 /g3/g3/g3/g322512/g3Skill Development and Awareness and Seminar Expense 1,53,06 3,32,94 6,54,28 2,17,45 97,44 3,39,39 /g3/g3/g322520/g3Production Materials, Service and Programme Expenses 7,56,73 18,99,35 24,85,40 18,82,52 4,16,09 1,86,79 /g3/g3/g3/g322521/g3Production Materials/Service Expenses 88,18 1,06,22 1,14,00 1,13,37 53 10 /g3/g3/g3/g322522/g3Program Expenses 6,04,31 16,95,35 23,22,38 17,22,82 4,12,91 1,86,65 /g3/g3/g3/g322529/g3Other Program Expenses 64,24 97,78 49,02 46,33 2,65 4 /g3/g322600/g3Monitoring, Evaluation & Travelling Expenses 2,46,41 2,87,39 3,34,29 3,07,19 17,78 9,32 /g3/g3/g322610/g3Monitoring, Evaluation & Travelling Expenses 2,46,41 2,87,39 3,34,29 3,07,19 17,78 9,32 /g3/g3/g3/g322611/g3Monitoring & Evaluation Expenses 1,02,34 1,35,03 1,49,23 1,32,90 7,64 8,69 /g3/g3/g3/g322612/g3Travelling Expenses 1,29,18 1,39,80 1,71,97 1,61,20 10,14 63 /g3/g3/g3/g322613/g3Travelling Expenses of VIPs & Delegations 10,86 6,01 6,12 6,12 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g322619/g3Other Travelling Expenses 4,03 6,55 6,97 6,97 0 0 /g3/g322700/g3Miscellaneous Expenses 1,49,71 3,08,51 1,78,84 1,74,75 2,04 2,05 /g3/g3/g322710/g3Miscellaneous Expenses 1,49,71 3,08,51 1,78,84 1,74,75 2,04 2,05 /g3/g3/g3/g322711/g3Miscellaneous Expenses 1,49,71 3,08,51 1,78,84 1,74,75 2,04 2,05 /g324000/g3Interest, Service fee and Bank Commission 26,06,01 34,99,43 44,49,44 44,49,44 0 0 /g3/g324100/g3Interest on Foreign Loan 5,23,75 6,74,70 7,74,25 7,74,25 0 0 /g3/g3/g324110/g3Interest on Foreign Loan 5,23,75 6,74,70 7,74,25 7,74,25 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g324111/g3Interest on Foreign Loan 5,23,75 6,74,70 7,74,25 7,74,25 0 0 /g3/g324200/g3Interest on Internal Loan, Service Fee and Bank Commission 20,82,26 28,24,73 36,75,19 36,75,19 0 0 /g3/g3/g324210/g3Interest on Internal Loan, Service Fee and Bank Commission 20,82,26 28,24,73 36,75,19 36,75,19 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g324211/g3Interest on Internal Loan 20,82,26 28,24,73 36,75,19 36,75,19 0 0 /g325000/g3Subsidies 1,27,72 1,47,81 1,00,19 93,67 5,18 1,34 /g3/g325100/g3Subsidies to Public Enterprises 1,04,71 86,68 80,00 80,00 0 0 /g3/g3/g325110/g3Operating Subsidy Non-Financial Public Corporations 1,04,71 86,68 80,00 80,00 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g325111/g3Operating Subsidy Non-Financial Corporations 47,91 49,35 49,56 49,56 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g325112/g3Capital Subsidy Non-Financial Corporations 56,80 37,33 30,44 30,44 0 0 /g3/g325200/g3Subsidies to Private Enterprises 21,41 58,80 17,37 10,85 5,18 1,34 /g3/g3/g325210/g3SubsidiesNon-Financial Enterprises 21,41 58,80 17,37 10,85 5,18 1,34 /g3/g3/g3/g325211/g3Operating Subsidies to Non-Financial Private Enterprises 11,91 49,57 7,87 1,35 5,18 1,34 /g3/g3/g3/g325212/g3Capital Subsidies to Non-Financial Private Enterprises 9,50 9,23 9,50 9,50 0 0 /g3/g325300/g3/g3Other Subsidies 1,60 2,33 2,82 2,82 0 0 /g3/g3/g325310/g3/g3Subsidies to other social organizations 1,60 2,33 2,82 2,82 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g325314/g3/g3Religious and cultural organization support 1,50 0 0 0 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g325315/g3/g3Other Subsidies 10 2,33 2,82 2,82 0 0 /g326000/g3Grants 4,46,35,32 4,57,81,12 4,52,66,67 4,09,10,32 16,97,45 26,58,90 /g3/g326200/g3Grant to International Organizations 37,52 49,22 50,65 50,65 0 0 /g3/g3/g326210/g3International Membership Fee and Assistance 37,52 49,22 50,65 50,65 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g326211/g3International Membership Fee& Assistance 37,52 49,22 50,65 50,65 0 0 /g3/g326300/g3Grant to Other Tires of Government 3,55,40,85 3,60,82,98 3,25,74,55 3,13,31,94 8,35,33 4,07,28 /g3/g3/g326310/g3Recurrent Grant to Local Body 1,11,75 1,36,75 0 0 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g326311/g3Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies 79,22 1,01,01 0 0 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g326312/g3Conditional Recurrent Grant to Local Bodies 32,53 35,74 0 0 0 0 /g3/g3/g326320/g3Capital Grant to Local Body 12,16,10 2,69,79 0 0 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g326322/g3Conditional Capital Grant to Local Bodies 12,16,10 2,69,79 0 0 0 0 13 Title 2019/20 Actual Expense 2020/21 Revised Estimate 2021/22 Estimate Source Nepal Government Foreign Grant Loan /g3/g3/g326330/g3Internal Grant 3,42,13,00 3,56,76,44 3,25,74,55 3,13,31,94 8,35,33 4,07,28 /g3/g3/g3/g326331/g3Equalization Grants 1,45,13,13 1,45,25,00 1,52,51,26 1,52,51,26 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g326332/g3Conditional Grants (Recurrent) 1,89,18,26 2,01,83,24 1,72,17,33 1,59,74,72 8,35,33 4,07,28 /g3/g3/g3/g326333/g3Special Grants 7,81,61 9,68,20 1,05,96 1,05,96 0 0 /g3/g326400/g3Grant to Social Service 90,56,95 96,48,92 1,26,41,47 95,27,73 8,62,12 22,51,62 /g3/g3/g326410/g3Recurrent Grant 46,29,93 48,83,53 69,98,23 59,18,43 3,42,16 7,37,64 /g3/g3/g3/g326411/g3Unconditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies, Committees & Boards 3,38,66 3,49,13 35,78 34,62 1,16 0 /g3/g3/g3/g326412/g3Conditional Recurrent Grant to Government Agencies, Committees & Boards 35,22,34 38,14,61 60,90,79 53,44,24 2,41,05 5,05,50 /g3/g3/g3/g326413/g3Conditional Grant to Other Institutions 7,68,93 7,19,79 8,71,66 5,39,57 99,95 2,32,14 /g3/g3/g326420/g3Capital Grant 44,27,02 47,65,39 56,43,24 36,09,30 5,19,96 15,13,98 /g3/g3/g3/g326421/g3Government Agencies, Committees, BoardsUnconditional Capital Grant 8,02,90 7,01,26 7,21,00 7,21,00 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g326422/g3Government Agencies, Committees, BoardsConditional Capital Grant 10,91,92 24,39,59 43,73,49 25,97,33 5,12,19 12,63,97 /g3/g3/g3/g326423/g3Conditional Capital Grant to Other Institutions 25,32,20 16,24,54 5,48,75 2,90,97 7,77 2,50,01 /g327000/g3Social Security 1,47,30,39 1,68,73,32 2,52,80,09 2,23,05,69 4,67,21 25,07,19 /g3/g327100/g3Social Security 69,82,52 75,82,06 1,27,78,91 1,27,69,31 9,60 0 /g3/g3/g327110/g3Social Security 69,82,52 75,82,06 1,27,78,91 1,27,69,31 9,60 0 /g3/g3/g3/g327111/g3Social Security 67,56,54 66,30,98 1,04,37,47 1,04,37,47 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g327112/g3Other Social Security 2,25,98 9,51,08 23,41,44 23,31,84 9,60 0 /g3/g327200/g3Social Assistance 5,80,07 6,79,12 35,86,30 6,21,58 4,57,53 25,07,19 /g3/g3/g327210/g3Social Assistance 5,80,07 6,79,12 35,86,30 6,21,58 4,57,53 25,07,19 /g3/g3/g3/g327211/g3Scholarships 53,84 1,28,42 1,92,97 1,68,02 5,83 19,12 /g3/g3/g3/g327212/g3Rescue, Relief and Rehabilitation Expense 11,82 11,92 92,69 13,29 0 79,40 /g3/g3/g3/g327213/g3Medicine Purchases 4,96,40 5,38,78 33,00,64 4,40,27 4,51,70 24,08,67 /g3/g3/g3/g327219/g3Other Social Assistance 18,01 0 0 0 0 0 /g3/g327300/g3Expenses Related to Social Benefit of Employees 71,67,80 86,12,14 89,14,88 89,14,80 8 0 /g3/g3/g327310/g3Retirement Benefits 71,67,80 86,12,14 89,14,88 89,14,80 8 0 /g3/g3/g3/g327311/g3Pensions and Disability Allowance 53,80,33 57,60,62 66,99,26 66,99,26 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g327312/g3Gratuity 2,34,25 2,13,53 2,17,92 2,17,84 8 0 /g3/g3/g3/g327313/g3Accumulated Leave of Retirees 6,71,31 11,70,79 11,90,67 11,90,67 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g327314/g3Medical Expenses of Retirees 8,80,70 14,08,93 7,41,94 7,41,94 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g327315/g3Benefit and Assistance for Deceased Employees 1,21 58,27 65,09 65,09 0 0 /g328000/g3Other Expenditure 2,27,22 4,10,29 40,22,35 39,91,01 4,11 27,23 /g3/g328100/g3Property Related Expenditure 2,07,61 2,46,86 2,59,87 2,52,53 4,11 3,23 /g3/g3/g328140/g3Land Rent 2,07,61 2,46,86 2,59,87 2,52,53 4,11 3,23 /g3/g3/g3/g328141/g3Land Rent 80 1,20 1,17 1,17 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g328142/g3House Rent 1,89,79 2,28,56 2,38,01 2,31,69 3,35 2,97 /g3/g3/g3/g328143/g3Vehicle and Machinery Rent 6,40 12,75 13,49 12,50 76 23 /g3/g3/g3/g328149/g3Other Rent 10,62 4,35 7,20 7,17 0 3 /g3/g328200/g3Refunds 19,61 63,77 98,02 98,02 0 0 /g3/g3/g328210/g3Refunds 19,61 63,77 98,02 98,02 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g328211/g3Revenue Refund 4,54 18,99 48,01 48,01 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g328212/g3Judicial Refund 13,58 10,17 11,01 11,01 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g328219/g3Other Refund 1,49 34,61 39,00 39,00 0 0 /g3/g328900/g3Recurrent Contingencies 0 99,66 36,64,46 36,40,46 0 24,00 /g3/g3/g328910/g3Recurrent Contingencies 0 99,66 36,64,46 36,40,46 0 24,00 /g3/g3/g3/g328911/g3Recurrent Contingencies 0 99,66 36,64,46 36,40,46 0 24,00 Capital 1,97,40,92 2,61,15,99 4,35,24,03 2,46,44,07 30,76,05 1,58,03,91 /g326000/g3Grants 8,26,91 9,68,67 60,97,17 56,62,87 1,55,89 2,78,41 /g3/g326300/g3Grant to Other Tires of Government 8,26,91 9,68,67 60,97,17 56,62,87 1,55,89 2,78,41 /g3/g3/g326330/g3Internal Grant 8,26,91 9,68,67 60,97,17 56,62,87 1,55,89 2,78,41 /g3/g3/g3/g326334/g3Complementary Grants 8,26,16 9,68,67 12,37,29 12,37,29 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g326335/g3Other Grants 75 0 0 0 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g326336/g3Conditional Grants (Capital ) 0 0 37,19,83 32,85,53 1,55,89 2,78,41 /g3/g3/g3/g326337/g3Special Grants (Capital ) 0 0 11,40,05 11,40,05 0 0 /g331000/g3Capital Expenditure 1,89,14,01 2,51,47,32 3,74,26,86 1,89,81,20 29,20,16 1,55,25,50 /g3/g331100/g3Fixed Assets 1,77,86,51 2,37,36,21 3,54,26,82 1,74,03,94 29,15,51 1,51,07,37 /g3/g3/g331110/g3Building Purchase 36,00,38 50,55,57 58,30,90 26,56,32 9,35,17 22,39,41 /g3/g3/g3/g331111/g3Building Purchase 0 8,38 37,89 37,89 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g331112/g3Building Construction 35,06,36 50,34,61 57,37,56 25,66,67 9,35,17 22,35,72 /g3/g3/g3/g331113/g3Capital Formation Building 93,94 1,75 25,10 21,41 0 3,69 14 Title 2019/20 Actual Expense 2020/21 Revised Estimate 2021/22 Estimate Source Nepal Government Foreign Grant Loan /g3/g3/g3/g331114/g3Land Pulling 5 10,83 30,35 30,35 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g331115/g3Furniture & Fixtures 3 0 0 0 0 0 /g3/g3/g331120/g3Vehicles 10,96,93 14,25,68 16,42,97 11,07,61 1,77,40 3,57,96 /g3/g3/g3/g331121/g3Vehicles 1,47,08 90,63 1,76,28 88,83 22,34 65,11 /g3/g3/g3/g331122/g3Plant & Machinery 8,49,36 12,19,39 12,80,05 8,38,87 1,50,88 2,90,30 /g3/g3/g3/g331123/g3Furniture and Fixture 1,00,49 1,15,66 1,86,64 1,79,91 4,18 2,55 /g3/g3/g331130/g3Other Capital Expenses 1,50,05 1,15,30 20,65,88 9,55,00 3,69,35 7,41,53 /g3/g3/g3/g331131/g3Livestock and Horticulture Development Expenses 16 3,40 1,27 1,27 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g331132/g3Research and Development Expenses 1,49,75 2,49 62,56 13,27 49,06 23 /g3/g3/g3/g331134/g3Software Development and Procurement Expenses 0 93,70 1,25,26 1,10,13 8,73 6,40 /g3/g3/g3/g331135/g3Capital Consultancy 14 15,71 18,76,79 8,30,33 3,11,56 7,34,90 /g3/g3/g331140/g3Security Equipment 3,20,27 1,49,83 2,64,56 2,64,56 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g331141/g3Security Equipment Purchase Expense 3,20,27 1,49,83 2,64,56 2,64,56 0 0 /g3/g3/g331150/g3Public Construction 1,17,17,44 1,54,49,63 2,51,98,43 1,20,42,37 14,32,84 1,17,23,22 /g3/g3/g3/g331151/g3Road and Bridge Construction 72,96,09 86,95,84 1,44,67,77 55,85,44 4,12,79 84,69,54 /g3/g3/g3/g331152/g3Railway and Airport Construction 3,53,87 3,66,87 5,70,55 3,63,35 0 2,07,20 /g3/g3/g3/g331153/g3Electricity Structure Construction 65,44 3,34,23 9,08,11 74,86 6,38,07 1,95,18 /g3/g3/g3/g331154/g3Embryo and Barrier Construction 5,22,52 5,57,40 8,53,30 4,42,84 70,13 3,40,33 /g3/g3/g3/g331155/g3Irrigation Structure Construction 6,35,75 8,98,20 14,43,92 7,77,64 0 6,66,28 /g3/g3/g3/g331156/g3Drinking Water Structure Construction 7,23,75 13,30,75 19,00,77 11,54,44 4,00 7,42,33 /g3/g3/g3/g331157/g3Forest and Environment Conservation 89,38 1,11,84 1,24,79 87,99 31,22 5,58 /g3/g3/g3/g331158/g3Sanitation Structure Construction 3,06,28 2,97,37 5,44,66 2,25,76 5,42 3,13,48 /g3/g3/g3/g331159/g3Public ConstructionOthers 17,24,36 28,57,13 43,84,56 33,30,05 2,71,21 7,83,30 /g3/g3/g331160/g3Improvement Expense 3 56,20 97,03 84,50 50 12,03 /g3/g3/g3/g331161/g3House Improvement Expense 3 56,20 97,03 84,50 50 12,03 /g3/g3/g331170/g3Capital Improvement Expense 9,01,41 14,84,00 3,27,05 2,93,58 25 33,22 /g3/g3/g3/g331171/g3Capital Improvement Expenses of Public Construction 2,64,39 2,37,47 3,27,05 2,93,58 25 33,22 /g3/g3/g3/g331172/g3Capital Research & Consultancy 6,37,02 12,46,53 0 0 0 0 /g3/g331400/g3Natural Assets 11,27,50 14,05,72 17,92,12 13,73,62 4,20 4,14,30 /g3/g3/g331410/g3Land Acquisition 11,26,98 14,05,60 17,87,79 13,73,49 0 4,14,30 /g3/g3/g3/g331411/g3Land Acquisition 11,26,98 14,05,60 17,87,79 13,73,49 0 4,14,30 /g3/g3/g331440/g3Intangible Asset Acquisition Expenses 52 12 4,33 13 4,20 0 /g3/g3/g3/g331441/g3License Procurement Expenses 52 12 4,33 13 4,20 0 /g3/g331500/g3Capital Contingencies 0 5,39 2,07,92 2,03,64 45 3,83 /g3/g3/g331510/g3Capital Contingencies 0 5,39 2,07,92 2,03,64 45 3,83 /g3/g3/g3/g331511/g3Capital Contingencies 0 5,39 2,07,92 2,03,64 45 3,83 Finance 1,17,90,16 1,47,25,02 2,07,97,76 1,11,82,01 3,97,50 92,18,25 /g332000/g3Fiscal Policy (L-R) 60,36,44 83,12,35 1,24,65,10 28,49,35 3,97,50 92,18,25 /g3/g332100/g3Domestic Financial Assets 60,07,45 82,77,35 1,24,30,10 28,14,35 3,97,50 92,18,25 /g3/g3/g332140/g3Net Loan Investment 47,63,69 47,40,97 1,06,50,47 14,20,22 1,45,00 90,85,25 /g3/g3/g3/g332142/g3Loan Investment to Public Enterprise 47,58,69 47,40,97 1,06,50,47 14,20,22 1,45,00 90,85,25 /g3/g3/g3/g332143/g3Loan Investment to Other Enterprise 5,00 0 0 0 0 0 /g3/g3/g332150/g3Net Share Investment 12,43,76 35,36,38 17,79,63 13,94,13 2,52,50 1,33,00 /g3/g3/g3/g332151/g3Share Investments to Public Enterprise 12,43,76 35,36,38 17,79,63 13,94,13 2,52,50 1,33,00 /g3/g332200/g3Net Internal Loan 28,99 35,00 35,00 35,00 0 0 /g3/g3/g332250/g3Net Foreign Share Investment 28,99 35,00 35,00 35,00 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g332251/g3Foreign Share Investments 28,99 35,00 35,00 35,00 0 0 /g333000/g3Liquidity 57,53,72 64,12,67 83,32,66 83,32,66 0 0 /g3/g333100/g3Domestic Net Borrowing 33,97,67 36,55,71 48,31,90 48,31,90 0 0 /g3/g3/g333190/g3Domestic Borrowing 33,97,67 36,55,71 48,31,90 48,31,90 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g333195/g3Amortizations 33,97,67 36,55,71 48,31,90 48,31,90 0 0 /g3/g333200/g3External Net Borrowing 23,56,05 27,56,96 35,00,76 35,00,76 0 0 /g3/g3/g333240/g3External Borrowing 23,56,05 27,56,96 35,00,76 35,00,76 0 0 /g3/g3/g3/g333242/g3External Amortization 23,56,05 27,56,96 35,00,76 35,00,76 0 0 Total Expense 10,91,33,31 12,66,26,46 16,47,57,67 12,74,90,73 63,37,62 3,09,29,32 /g3 15 Administrative Expenditure Estimates Fiscal Year/g32021/22 Annex – 8 (Rs. in '00000)/g3 Title 2019/20 Actual Expense 2020/21 Revised Estimate 2021/22 Estimate Source Nepal Government / Internal Loan Foreign Grant Loan Head of State 20,48 20,22 19,48 19,48 0 0 President 15,84 14,99 14,59 14,59 0 0 Recurrent 13,90 13,11 12,65 12,65 0 0 Capital 1,94 1,88 1,94 1,94 0 0 Deputy President 4,64 5,23 4,89 4,89 0 0 Recurrent 4,42 5,10 4,74 4,74 0 0 Capital 22 13 15 15 0 0 Constitutional Body 9,20,92 13,03,55 12,44,80 12,44,80 0 0 Chief of Provinces 14,45 22,40 20,68 20,68 0 0 Recurrent 13,84 21,49 20,18 20,18 0 0 Capital 61 91 50 50 0 0 Federal Parliament 1,17,97 1,22,43 1,25,11 1,25,11 0 0 Recurrent 1,14,10 1,20,11 1,21,91 1,21,91 0 0 Capital 3,87 2,32 3,20 3,20 0 0 Courts 4,76,86 7,02,74 6,91,98 6,91,98 0 0 Recurrent 4,20,31 4,79,38 4,88,05 4,88,05 0 0 Capital 56,55 2,23,36 2,03,93 2,03,93 0 0 Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority 95,34 1,20,84 1,31,62 1,31,62 0 0 Recurrent 80,07 93,22 1,02,53 1,02,53 0 0 Capital 15,27 27,62 29,09 29,09 0 0 Office of the Auditor General 48,84 57,72 56,76 56,76 0 0 Recurrent 41,36 47,74 48,28 48,28 0 0 Capital 7,48 9,98 8,48 8,48 0 0 Public Service Commission 67,10 89,99 90,90 90,90 0 0 Recurrent 62,71 88,18 88,79 88,79 0 0 Capital 4,39 1,81 2,11 2,11 0 0 Election Commission 53,07 1,15,44 55,44 55,44 0 0 Recurrent 52,57 1,00,42 44,95 44,95 0 0 Capital 50 15,02 10,49 10,49 0 0 National Human Rights Commission 18,86 25,80 26,16 26,16 0 0 Recurrent 18,66 25,55 25,82 25,82 0 0 Capital 20 25 34 34 0 0 Council of Justice 6,29 4,68 4,83 4,83 0 0 Recurrent 4,71 4,54 4,62 4,62 0 0 Capital 1,58 14 21 21 0 0 National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission 4,62 8,57 8,80 8,80 0 0 Recurrent 4,46 8,37 8,44 8,44 0 0 Capital 16 20 36 36 0 0 National Women Commission 6,11 10,42 10,94 10,94 0 0 Recurrent 6,01 10,13 10,67 10,67 0 0 Capital 10 29 27 27 0 0 National Dalit Commission 1,29 3,20 3,33 3,33 0 0 Recurrent 1,28 3,12 3,23 3,23 0 0 Capital 1 8 10 10 0 0 National Inclusion Commission 1,62 3,34 3,08 3,08 0 0 Recurrent 1,54 3,21 2,96 2,96 0 0 Capital 8 13 12 12 0 0 Indigenous Nationalities Commission 90 3,06 2,80 2,80 0 0 Recurrent 89 2,88 2,67 2,67 0 0 Capital 1 18 13 13 0 0 Madhesi Commission 2,40 3,56 3,39 3,39 0 0 Recurrent 1,97 3,33 3,33 3,33 0 0 Capital 43 23 6 6 0 0 Tharu Commission 2,76 5,14 4,46 4,46 0 0 Recurrent 2,28 4,11 4,16 4,16 0 0 Capital 48 1,03 30 30 0 0 Muslim Commission 2,44 4,22 4,52 4,52 0 0 16 Title 2019/20 Actual Expense 2020/21 Revised Estimate 2021/22 Estimate Source Nepal Government / Internal Loan Foreign Grant Loan Recurrent 2,13 3,81 3,95 3,95 0 0 Capital 31 41 57 57 0 0 Ministry 5,32,46,35 6,12,02,26 8,21,11,72 5,61,37,44 49,48,90 2,10,25,38 Office of Prime Minister and Council of Ministers 3,50,62 3,87,86 4,17,87 4,07,67 10,20 0 Recurrent 2,69,45 3,54,80 3,63,92 3,55,12 8,80 0 Capital 81,17 33,06 53,95 52,55 1,40 0 Ministry of Finance 7,77,74 21,38,64 38,23,75 28,17,51 9,10,20 96,04 Recurrent 6,02,45 15,77,01 27,89,06 26,69,79 1,08,68 10,59 Capital 1,75,29 5,61,63 10,34,69 1,47,72 8,01,52 85,45 Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Supply 4,12,97 7,74,21 11,03,73 7,87,40 2,03,73 1,12,60 Recurrent 2,66,47 4,28,74 5,39,08 4,13,08 1,24,71 1,29 Capital 1,46,50 3,45,47 5,64,65 3,74,32 79,02 1,11,31 Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation 23,41,50 29,23,32 42,18,56 27,39,14 1,50,05 13,29,37 Recurrent 3,74,24 4,26,46 4,24,77 3,45,73 63,76 15,28 Capital 19,67,26 24,96,86 37,93,79 23,93,41 86,29 13,14,09 Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs 28,24 49,47 51,56 51,56 0 0 Recurrent 25,99 48,80 49,40 49,40 0 0 Capital 2,25 67 2,16 2,16 0 0 Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development 21,08,70 21,02,58 32,31,37 20,57,75 2,86,63 8,86,99 Recurrent 19,58,89 18,87,49 28,69,30 18,33,36 2,85,95 7,49,99 Capital 1,49,81 2,15,09 3,62,07 2,24,39 68 1,37,00 Ministry of Water Supply 9,01,13 18,44,84 25,03,43 15,55,02 29,49 9,18,92 Recurrent 60,37 1,28,33 1,00,20 88,58 1,77 9,85 Capital 8,40,76 17,16,51 24,03,23 14,66,44 27,72 9,09,07 Ministry of Home Affairs 1,29,66,80 1,34,83,27 1,65,56,19 1,61,38,57 1,17,92 2,99,70 Recurrent 1,23,39,62 1,28,12,19 1,57,32,40 1,55,64,89 2,42 1,65,09 Capital 6,27,18 6,71,08 8,23,79 5,73,68 1,15,50 1,34,61 Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation 3,88,15 5,98,14 5,81,74 5,81,23 51 0 Recurrent 2,48,79 3,75,64 3,85,33 3,85,29 4 0 Capital 1,39,36 2,22,50 1,96,41 1,95,94 47 0 Ministry of Foreign Affairs 3,81,14 6,36,10 7,13,05 7,13,05 0 0 Recurrent 3,46,65 5,25,48 5,65,83 5,65,83 0 0 Capital 34,49 1,10,62 1,47,22 1,47,22 0 0 Ministry of Forest and Environment 9,72,19 10,01,11 12,16,84 10,39,63 1,76,21 1,00 Recurrent 6,32,53 6,68,55 7,86,26 6,98,27 86,99 1,00 Capital 3,39,66 3,32,56 4,30,58 3,41,36 89,22 0 Ministry of Land Management, Cooperative and Poverty Alleviation 5,18,44 7,46,62 7,18,67 7,14,07 4,60 0 Recurrent 4,45,08 5,41,12 5,69,90 5,65,30 4,60 0 Capital 73,36 2,05,50 1,48,77 1,48,77 0 0 Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport 84,63,01 98,12,74 1,62,50,79 67,53,41 4,65,69 90,31,69 Recurrent 9,94,07 10,13,76 10,29,50 10,29,50 0 0 Capital 74,68,94 87,98,98 1,52,21,29 57,23,91 4,65,69 90,31,69 Ministry of Women, Children and Senior Citizen 43,17 67,84 90,79 89,69 1,10 0 Recurrent 38,29 54,12 75,17 74,07 1,10 0 Capital 4,88 13,72 15,62 15,62 0 0 Ministry of Youth and Sports 4,65,13 1,66,23 2,19,93 2,19,93 0 0 Recurrent 2,41,77 1,28,85 1,66,16 1,66,16 0 0 Capital 2,23,36 37,38 53,77 53,77 0 0 Ministry of Defense 50,26,95 52,91,06 51,04,40 51,04,40 0 0 Recurrent 43,76,17 44,81,66 44,60,19 44,60,19 0 0 Capital 6,50,78 8,09,40 6,44,21 6,44,21 0 0 Ministry of Urban Development 24,57,26 23,57,99 32,11,53 20,91,55 0 11,19,98 Recurrent 4,60,01 3,98,73 3,82,54 1,54,09 0 2,28,45 Capital 19,97,25 19,59,26 28,28,99 19,37,46 0 8,91,53 Ministry of Education, Science and Technology 39,48,04 43,21,75 60,10,67 44,70,23 4,08,65 11,31,79 Recurrent 39,33,45 42,88,91 59,72,57 44,34,01 4,08,46 11,30,10 Capital 14,59 32,84 38,10 36,22 19 1,69 Ministry of Communications and Information Technology 5,72,90 7,61,40 7,23,85 7,23,85 0 0 Recurrent 4,60,94 5,16,52 5,27,49 5,27,49 0 0 Capital 1,11,96 2,44,88 1,96,36 1,96,36 0 0 Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration 16,28,02 19,88,55 20,03,67 10,17,97 3,95,43 5,90,27 17 Title 2019/20 Actual Expense 2020/21 Revised Estimate 2021/22 Estimate Source Nepal Government / Internal Loan Foreign Grant Loan Recurrent 10,99,84 10,63,55 7,45,78 4,27,76 3,14,27 3,75 Capital 5,28,18 9,25,00 12,57,89 5,90,21 81,16 5,86,52 Ministry of Health and Population 30,85,58 41,77,90 90,75,45 41,20,70 8,34,75 41,20,00 Recurrent 23,87,76 33,75,73 75,05,75 38,70,12 5,81,78 30,53,85 Capital 6,97,82 8,02,17 15,69,70 2,50,58 2,52,97 10,66,15 Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security 99,99 4,40,82 6,08,61 4,82,48 35,74 90,39 Recurrent 87,21 4,35,23 5,94,68 4,74,67 35,11 84,90 Capital 12,78 5,59 13,93 7,81 63 5,49 National Planning Commission 54,64 3,51,45 3,20,14 3,20,14 0 0 Recurrent 51,18 3,44,26 3,16,09 3,16,09 0 0 Capital 3,46 7,19 4,05 4,05 0 0 National Reconstruction Authority 52,54,04 47,78,37 33,55,13 11,40,49 9,18,00 12,96,64 Recurrent 27,27,81 17,32,12 2,13,72 1,67,68 30 45,74 Capital 25,26,23 30,46,25 31,41,41 9,72,81 9,17,70 12,50,90 MOF Financing & Debt Service 1,43,96,17 1,82,24,45 2,52,47,20 1,56,31,45 3,97,50 92,18,25 MOFFinancing 60,36,44 83,12,35 1,24,65,10 28,49,35 3,97,50 92,18,25 Finance 60,36,44 83,12,35 1,24,65,10 28,49,35 3,97,50 92,18,25 MOFDomestic Debt Service 54,79,93 64,80,44 85,07,09 85,07,09 0 0 Recurrent 20,82,26 28,24,73 36,75,19 36,75,19 0 0 Finance 33,97,67 36,55,71 48,31,90 48,31,90 0 0 MOFExternal Debt Service (Multilateral) 23,24,36 27,25,39 33,22,62 33,22,62 0 0 Recurrent 4,38,73 5,23,79 5,66,04 5,66,04 0 0 Finance 18,85,63 22,01,60 27,56,58 27,56,58 0 0 MOFExternal Debt Service (Bilateral) 5,55,44 7,06,27 9,52,39 9,52,39 0 0 Recurrent 85,02 1,50,91 2,08,21 2,08,21 0 0 Finance 4,70,42 5,55,36 7,44,18 7,44,18 0 0 MOF Miscellaneous 55,10,99 92,66,15 1,74,62,75 1,74,62,75 0 0 MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits 54,26,54 74,90,34 91,20,31 91,20,31 0 0 Recurrent 54,26,54 74,90,34 91,20,31 91,20,31 0 0 MOF Miscellaneous 84,45 17,75,81 83,42,44 83,42,44 0 0 Recurrent 81,95 5,08,67 61,24,56 61,24,56 0 0 Capital 2,50 12,67,14 22,17,88 22,17,88 0 0 Province 1,07,40,93 1,04,18,55 1,03,70,25 99,08,03 3,73,42 88,80 Province 1,07,40,93 1,04,18,55 1,03,70,25 99,08,03 3,73,42 88,80 Recurrent 1,03,18,09 99,14,88 74,22,17 70,97,68 3,24,49 0 Capital 4,22,84 5,03,67 29,48,08 28,10,35 48,93 88,80 Local level 2,42,97,47 2,61,91,28 2,83,01,47 2,70,86,78 6,17,80 5,96,89 Local Level 2,42,97,47 2,61,91,28 2,83,01,47 2,70,86,78 6,17,80 5,96,89 Recurrent 2,38,92,10 2,57,26,28 2,51,52,38 2,42,34,26 5,10,84 4,07,28 Capital 4,05,37 4,65,00 31,49,09 28,52,52 1,06,96 1,89,61 Total Expense 10,91,33,31 12,66,26,46 16,47,57,67 12,74,90,73 63,37,62 3,09,29,32 /g3 18 Gender Responsive Budget (Including Financing) Fiscal Year/g32021/22 Annex 9 (Rs. in '00000/g12/g3 /g3 Organization Direct Benefit Indirect Benefit Neutral Total 101/g3President 0 0 1459 1459 102/g3Deputy President 0 0 489 489 103/g3Chief of Provinces 0 0 2068 2068 202/g3Federal Parliament 0 0 12511 12511 204/g3Courts 0 0 69198 69198 206/g3Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority 0 0 13162 13162 208/g3Office of the Auditor General 0 0 5676 5676 210/g3Public Service Commission 9090 0 0 9090 212/g3Election Commission 0 0 5544 5544 214/g3National Human Rights Commission 2616 0 0 2616 218/g3Council of Justice 0 0 483 483 220/g3National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission 0 0 880 880 222/g3National Women Commission 1094 0 0 1094 224/g3National Dalit Commission 0 333 0 333 226/g3National Inclusion Commission 0 308 0 308 228/g3Indigenous Nationalities Commission 0 280 0 280 230/g3Madhesi Commission 0 339 0 339 232/g3Tharu Commission 0 446 0 446 234/g3Muslim Commission 0 452 0 452 301/g3Office of Prime Minister and Council of Ministers 0 0 41787 41787 305/g3Ministry of Finance 3994 97965 282416 384375 307/g3Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Supply 47499 29372 56128 132999 308/g3Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation 247974 196988 32632 477594 311/g3Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs 0 281 4875 5156 312/g3Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development 278465 100957 31567 410989 313/g3Ministry of Water Supply 146605 65984 81772 294361 314/g3Ministry of Home Affairs 936942 450868 281225 1669035 325/g3Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation 35813 1185 29609 66607 326/g3Ministry of Foreign Affairs 0 12075 59230 71305 329/g3Ministry of Forest and Environment 45033 82675 13610 141318 336/g3Ministry of Land Management, Cooperative and Poverty Alleviation 8016 13439 55674 77129 337/g3Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport 83833 1185167 397894 1666894 340/g3Ministry of Women, Children and Senior Citizen 12005 0 0 12005 343/g3Ministry of Youth and Sports 0 24994 2474 27468 345/g3Ministry of Defense 0 495041 15399 510440 347/g3Ministry of Urban Development 122379 234455 41999 398833 350/g3Ministry of Education, Science and Technology 1220020 576561 3830 1800411 358/g3Ministry of Communications and Information Technology 0 14762 57623 72385 365/g3Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration 53655 254670 0 308325 370/g3Ministry of Health and Population 963924 263975 0 1227899 371/g3Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security 3995 61381 74670 140046 391/g3National Planning Commission 17463 3103 11448 32014 392/g3National Reconstruction Authority 0 0 335513 335513 501/g3MOFFinancing 469973 467350 309187 1246510 502/g3MOFDomestic Debt Service 0 0 850709 850709 503/g3MOFExternal Debt Service (Multilateral) 0 0 332262 332262 504/g3MOFExternal Debt Service (Bilateral) 0 0 95239 95239 601/g3MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits 0 108010 804021 912031 602/g3MOF Miscellaneous 22000 799344 12900 834244 701/g3Province 678294 0 0 678294 801/g3Local Level 1095162 0 0 1095162 Total Expense 6,50,58,44 5,54,27,60 4,42,71,63 16,47,57,67 Sign Gendered Responsible Budget Amount Percentage 1 Directly 6505844 39.49 2 Indirectly 5542760 33.64 3 Neutral 4427163 26.87 19 Note: Gender Responsive Budget Classifications Basis of classification for Gender Responsive Budget are as follows: a) 50 percent or more budget directly beneficial for women Directly Responsive b) 20 or more and less than 50 percent pf budget directly beneficial for women Indirect Responsive c) Less than 20 percent of budget directly beneficial for women Neutral Following indicators are used to assess the percentage above. SN Gendered Responsible Budget Percentage 1 Women Participation in formulation and implementation of Program 20 20 2 Women Capacity Development 20 20 3 Women's share in benefit 20 20 4 Support in employment and income generating to women 20 20 5 Quality reform in time consumption & minimization in of work to women 20 20 Total 100 20 /g38/g79/g76/g80/g68/g87/g72/g3/g37/g88/g71/g74/g72/g87/g3 /g41/g76/g86/g70/g68/g79/g3/g60/g72/g68/g85/g3 /g21/g19/g21/g20/g18/g21/g21/g3 /g3 /g36/g81/g81/g72/g91/g3/g16/g3/g20/g19/g3/g3 /g11 /g53/g86/g17/g3/g76/g81/g3/g10/g19/g19/g19/g19/g19/g12/g3 /g3 Organization Direct Benefit Indirect Benefit Neutral Total 101/g3President 0 0 14,59 14,59 102/g3Deputy President 0 0 4,89 4,89 103/g3Chief of Provinces 0 0 20,68 20,68 202/g3Federal Parliament 0 0 1,25,11 1,25,11 204/g3Courts 0 0 6,91,98 6,91,98 206/g3Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority 0 0 1,31,62 1,31,62 208/g3Office of the Auditor General 0 0 56,76 56,76 210/g3Public Service Commission 0 0 90,90 90,90 212/g3Election Commission 0 0 55,44 55,44 214/g3National Human Rights Commission 0 0 26,16 26,16 218/g3Council of Justice 0 0 4,83 4,83 220/g3National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission 0 0 8,80 8,80 222/g3National Women Commission 0 0 10,94 10,94 224/g3National Dalit Commission 0 0 3,33 3,33 226/g3National Inclusion Commission 0 0 3,08 3,08 228/g3Indigenous Nationalities Commission 0 0 2,80 2,80 230/g3Madhesi Commission 0 0 3,39 3,39 232/g3Tharu Commission 0 0 4,46 4,46 234/g3Muslim Commission 0 0 4,52 4,52 301/g3Office of Prime Minister and Council of Ministers 0 0 4,17,87 4,17,87 305/g3Ministry of Finance 0 9,10,54 29,33,21 38,43,75 307/g3Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Supply 5,60 1,21,95 12,02,44 13,29,99 308/g3Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation 30,67,93 12,30,04 4,77,97 47,75,94 311/g3Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs 0 0 51,56 51,56 312/g3Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development 2,65,71 27,19,06 11,25,12 41,09,89 313/g3Ministry of Water Supply 15,44,04 5,81,85 8,17,72 29,43,61 314/g3Ministry of Home Affairs 0 96,06,26 70,84,09 1,66,90,35 325/g3Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation 0 7,85 6,58,22 6,66,07 326/g3Ministry of Foreign Affairs 0 0 7,13,05 7,13,05 329/g3Ministry of Forest and Environment 5,68,77 2,50,69 5,93,72 14,13,18 336/g3Ministry of Land Management, Cooperative and Poverty Alleviation 0 7,65 7,63,64 7,71,29 337/g3Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport 2,79,19 43,91,96 1,19,97,79 1,66,68,94 340/g3Ministry of Women, Children and Senior Citizen 0 0 1,20,05 1,20,05 343/g3Ministry of Youth and Sports 0 0 2,74,68 2,74,68 345/g3Ministry of Defense 0 0 51,04,40 51,04,40 347/g3Ministry of Urban Development 3,44,74 9,85,47 26,58,12 39,88,33 350/g3Ministry of Education, Science and Technology 0 82,09 1,79,22,02 1,80,04,11 358/g3Ministry of Communications and Information Technology 0 0 7,23,85 7,23,85 365/g3Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration 64,91 5,63,79 24,54,55 30,83,25 370/g3Ministry of Health and Population 0 14,64,03 1,08,14,96 1,22,78,99 371/g3Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security 0 4,61,01 9,39,45 14,00,46 391/g3National Planning Commission 0 0 3,20,14 3,20,14 392/g3National Reconstruction Authority 0 0 33,55,13 33,55,13 501/g3MOFFinancing 25,95,83 37,64,34 61,04,93 1,24,65,10 502/g3MOFDomestic Debt Service 0 0 85,07,09 85,07,09 503/g3MOFExternal Debt Service (Multilateral) 0 0 33,22,62 33,22,62 504/g3MOFExternal Debt Service (Bilateral) 0 0 9,52,39 9,52,39 601/g3MOF Staff Benefits and Retirement Benefits 0 0 91,20,31 91,20,31 602/g3MOF Miscellaneous 3,50,00 10,00,00 69,92,44 83,42,44 701/g3Province 0 67,82,94 0 67,82,94 801/g3Local Level 3,15,61 1,06,36,01 0 1,09,51,62 Total Expense 94,02,33 4,55,67,53 10,97,87,81 16,47,57,67 Sign Climate change budget Amount Percentage 1 Highly Relevant 940233 5.71 2 Relevant 4556753 27.66 3 Neutral 10978781 66.64 /g3 21 Foreign Grant and Loan Summary Fiscal Year/g32021/22 An nex – 11 (Rs. in '00000) Donor Agencies Total Grant Loan Total Cash Direct Payment Reimburs ement Commodity Total Cash Direct Payment Reimburse ment Multilateral 2,54,65,74 16,49,26 2,51,56 3,68,93 9,77,53 51,24 2,38,16,48 66,01,30 80,03,70 92,11,48 Asian Development Bank 1,17,11,24 3,61,43 0 1,76,91 1,84,52 0 1,13,49,81 12,56,04 61,24,63 39,69,14 ADB General 1,05,40,68 3,50,87 0 1,76,91 1,73,96 0 1,01,89,81 96,04 61,24,63 39,69,14 JFPR 10,56 10,56 0 0 10,56 0 0 0 0 0 ADB/PBL 11,60,00 0 0 0 0 0 11,60,00 11,60,00 0 0 European Union 1,70,00 1,70,00 1,70,00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 European Union Budget Support 1,70,00 1,70,00 1,70,00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 International Development Association (World Bank) 87,92,26 3,72,77 30,99 73,50 2,68,28 0 84,19,49 27,12,26 16,60,22 40,47,01 IDA General 57,92,81 1,16,38 0 60,90 55,48 0 56,76,43 0 16,60,22 40,16,21 WB Trust Fund 2,88,19 2,56,39 30,99 12,60 2,12,80 0 31,80 1,00 0 30,80 IDA/DPC 25,61,26 0 0 0 0 0 25,61,26 25,61,26 0 0 IDA Higher Education P for R 1,50,00 0 0 0 0 0 1,50,00 1,50,00 0 0 International Monetary Fund 26,33,00 0 0 0 0 0 26,33,00 26,33,00 0 0 IMF Extended Credit Facility 26,33,00 0 0 0 0 0 26,33,00 26,33,00 0 0 Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) Fund 1,03,06 0 0 0 0 0 1,03,06 0 38,85 64,21 OFID 1,03,06 0 0 0 0 0 1,03,06 0 38,85 64,21 Saudi Development Fund 15,00 0 0 0 0 0 15,00 0 0 15,00 SAARC Fund 15,00 0 0 0 0 0 15,00 0 0 15,00 United Nations 2,00,42 2,00,42 40,97 1,03,43 4,78 51,24 0 0 0 0 UNDP 8,08 8,08 0 8,08 0 0 0 0 0 0 UNICEF 41,68 41,68 12,07 21,14 0 8,47 0 0 0 0 UN -GEF 51,10 51,10 14,41 36,69 0 0 0 0 0 0 IOM 1,85 1,85 0 1,85 0 0 0 0 0 0 WHO 15,81 15,81 0 15,17 0 64 0 0 0 0 WFP 46,91 46,91 0 0 4,78 42,13 0 0 0 0 UNFCCC-Adaptation Fund Board 20,00 20,00 0 20,00 0 0 0 0 0 0 GCF 14,99 14,99 14,49 50 0 0 0 0 0 0 International Fund for Agricultural Development 7,14,96 1,84,49 9,60 11,09 1,63,80 0 5,30,47 0 0 5,30,47 IFAD 7,14,96 1,84,49 9,60 11,09 1,63,80 0 5,30,47 0 0 5,30,47 SSDP 8,55,54 2,69,89 0 0 2,69,89 0 5,85,65 0 0 5,85,65 SSDP 2,70,54 2,69,89 0 0 2,69,89 0 65 0 0 65 SSDP P for R 5,85,00 0 0 0 0 0 5,85,00 0 0 5,85,00 Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank 1,84,00 4,00 0 4,00 0 0 1,80,00 0 1,80,00 0 Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank 1,84,00 4,00 0 4,00 0 0 1,80,00 0 1,80,00 0 Global Partnership For Education 86,26 86,26 0 0 86,26 0 0 0 0 0 Global Partnership For Education 86,26 86,26 0 0 86,26 0 0 0 0 0 Bilateral-Donors 97,42,08 36,29,24 4,91,24 22,72,50 8,65,50 0 61,12,84 5,35,77 45,20,68 10,56,39 China 17,75,69 8,15,69 0 8,15,69 0 0 9,60,00 0 9,60,00 0 22 Donor Agencies Total Grant Loan Total Cash Direct Payment Reimburs ement Commodity Total Cash Direct Payment Reimburse ment China General 8,15,69 8,15,69 0 8,15,69 0 0 0 0 0 0 China Exim Bank 9,60,00 0 0 0 0 0 9,60,00 0 9,60,00 0 Finland 47,87 47,87 0 47,87 0 0 0 0 0 0 Finland General 17,88 17,88 0 17,88 0 0 0 0 0 0 Finland NPTF 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 Finland Pool Fund 29,98 29,98 0 29,98 0 0 0 0 0 0 Germany 1,06,50 1,06,50 0 1,06,50 0 0 0 0 0 0 Germany KFW 1,06,50 1,06,50 0 1,06,50 0 0 0 0 0 0 India 29,80,73 10,07,29 1,13,50 1,08,77 7,85,02 0 19,73,44 35,77 18,46,67 91,00 India General 10,07,29 10,07,29 1,13,50 1,08,77 7,85,02 0 0 0 0 0 India Exim Bank 19,73,44 0 0 0 0 0 19,73,44 35,77 18,46,67 91,00 Japan 20,27,45 1,97,00 72,00 1,25,00 0 0 18,30,45 5,00,00 6,54,01 6,76,44 Japan General 9,56,00 0 0 0 0 0 9,56,00 0 5,67,01 3,88,99 Japan JICA 5,49,45 1,75,00 50,00 1,25,00 0 0 3,74,45 0 87,00 2,87,45 Japan -KR2 22,00 22,00 22,00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Japan-Programme Loan 5,00,00 0 0 0 0 0 5,00,00 5,00,00 0 0 Kuwait Development Fund 97,42 0 0 0 0 0 97,42 0 0 97,42 KFAED 97,42 0 0 0 0 0 97,42 0 0 97,42 Netherland 24 24 24 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Netherlands SNV 24 24 24 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Norway 40,00 40,00 0 40,00 0 0 0 0 0 0 Norway General 40,00 40,00 0 40,00 0 0 0 0 0 0 Switzerland 3,09,16 3,09,16 1,52,37 1,56,79 0 0 0 0 0 0 Switzerland SDC 3,09,16 3,09,16 1,52,37 1,56,79 0 0 0 0 0 0 Saudi Development Fund 1,91,53 0 0 0 0 0 1,91,53 0 0 1,91,53 Saudi Fund 1,91,53 0 0 0 0 0 1,91,53 0 0 1,91,53 United Kingdom 82,87 82,87 0 33,97 48,90 0 0 0 0 0 UK General 82,87 82,87 0 33,97 48,90 0 0 0 0 0 United States of America 8,40,80 8,40,80 0 8,09,22 31,58 0 0 0 0 0 USAID General 31,58 31,58 0 0 31,58 0 0 0 0 0 Millennium Challenge Corporation, USA 8,09,22 8,09,22 0 8,09,22 0 0 0 0 0 0 European Union 12,41,82 1,81,82 1,53,13 28,69 0 0 10,60,00 0 10,60,00 0 EU General 1,81,82 1,81,82 1,53,13 28,69 0 0 0 0 0 0 European Investment Bank 10,60,00 0 0 0 0 0 10,60,00 0 10,60,00 0 Basket Funds 20,59,12 10,59,12 65,02 6 5,64,02 4,30,02 10,00,00 0 0 10,00,00 Pooled Funds 38,75 38,75 3,77 4 0 34,94 0 0 0 0 GEFMATGeneral 38,71 38,71 3,77 0 0 34,94 0 0 0 0 GEFMATSave The Children 4 4 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 Global Alliance for Vaccination and Immunization 4,50,79 4,50,79 55,65 0 6 3,95,08 0 0 0 0 Gavi General 4,50,79 4,50,79 55,65 0 6 3,95,08 0 0 0 0 Enhanced Integrated Framework 5,60 5,60 5,60 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Enhanced Integrated Framework 5,60 5,60 5,60 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Donor Pool FundHealth 15,63,98 5,63,98 0 2 5,63,96 0 10,00,00 0 0 10,00,00 Donor Pool FundHealth 15,63,98 5,63,98 0 2 5,63,96 0 10,00,00 0 0 10,00,00 Grand Total 3,72,66,94 63,37,62 8,07,82 26,41,49 24,07,05 4,81,26 3,09,29,32 71,37,07 1,25,24,38 1,12,67,87 /g3 23 Summary of Subsidy, Grant and Fiscal Transfer Fiscal Year/g32021/22 Annex 12 ( Rs. in '00000) Grant Number 2019/20 Actual Expense 2020/21 Revised Estimate 2021/22 Estimate Re Current Capital Total Re Current Capital Total Re Current Capital Total 204 Courts 478 155 633 826 43 869 0 0 0 208 Office of the Auditor General 0 2 2 0 3 3 0 3 3 222 National Women Commission 0 0 0 0 0 0 100 0 100 301 Office of Prime Minister and Council of Ministers 249 0 249 583 0 583 600 0 600 305 Ministry of Finance 11404 10276 21680 10131 9512 19643 246 8997 9243 307 Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Supply 11740 10 11750 18294 29 18323 14674 105 14779 308 Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation 24515 0 24515 25271 0 25271 24882 0 24882 311 Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs 319 0 319 277 0 277 548 0 548 312 Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development 127451 8891 136342 94711 19432 114143 165883 23869 189752 313 Ministry of Water Supply 36 0 36 67 5379 5446 1109 0 1109 314 Ministry of Home Affairs 371 -43 328 347 1041 1388 361 5 366 325 Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation 4168 13304 17472 4695 25641 30336 3620 20694 24314 326 Ministry of Foreign Affairs 223 69 292 198 194 392 209 237 446 329 Ministry of Forest and Environment 4818 0 4818 2593 452 3045 1474 389 1863 336 Ministry of Land Management, Cooperative and Poverty Alleviation 1505 758 2263 1678 972 2650 1889 926 2815 337 Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport 400 79600 80000 485 70024 70509 450 72100 72550 340 Ministry of Women, Children and Senior Citizen 1448 232 1680 1444 288 1732 2422 200 2622 343 Ministry of Youth and Sports 390 0 390 1420 253 1673 1016 2500 3516 345 Ministry of Defense 131 0 131 151 7 158 155 10 165 347 Ministry of Urban Development 445 38198 38643 324 28640 28964 654 25345 25999 350 Ministry of Education, Science and Technology 149894 43434 193328 150191 47932 198123 164103 164457 328560 358 Ministry of Communications and Information Technology 8437 1140 9577 8135 583 8718 8810 820 9630 365 Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration 12892 88432 101324 16963 77815 94778 15947 29343 45290 370 Ministry of Health and Population 113748 44792 158540 161871 68796 230667 224660 113265 337925 371 Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security 10 0 10 2924 0 2924 36754 0 36754 392 National Reconstruction Authority 0 245474 245474 0 145179 145179 0 10400 10400 602 MOF Miscellaneous 5359 0 5359 11869 11114 22983 35000 100000 135000 701 Province 1031809 42284 1074093 991488 50367 1041855 742217 294808 1037025 801 Local Level 2389210 40537 2429747 2572628 46500 2619128 2515238 314909 2830147 Grand Total 3901450 657545 4558995 4079564 610196 4689760 3963021 1183382 5146403 /g3 24 Summary of Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) F iscal Year/g32021/22 Annex 13 ( Rs. in '00000) Sustainable Development Sign Sustainable development goal Amount Percentage 0 Not encode 3457786 20.99 1 No poverty 1165189 7.07 2 Zero hunger 711102 4.32 3 Good health and well being 1264385 7.67 4 Quality education 1817534 11.03 5 Gender equality 5816 0.04 6 Clean water and sanitation 377616 2.29 7 Affordable and clean energy 888912 5.4 8 Decent work and economic growth 503404 3.06 9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure 2317543 14.07 10 Reduced inequalities 937580 5.69 11 Sustainable cities and communities 1441804 8.75 13 Climate action 166486 1.01 15 Life on land 123395 0.75 16 Peace, justice and strong institutions 1225848 7.44 17 Partnerships for the goals 71367 0.43 Grand Total 16,47,57,67 100 /g3 25 Targeted Performance Indicators Fiscal Year 2021/22 Annex – 14 (Rs. In '00000) S.No. Sectoral Programme Sub-sectoral Programme Unit Estimated upto FY 2020/21 At the end of FY 2021/22 1 Agriculture Food grain production M.Ton (thousand) 10632 10965 Paddy M.Ton (thousand) 5500 5751 Maize M.Ton (thousand) 2832 2889 Wheat M.Ton (thousand) 2300 2325 Potato M.Ton (thousand) 3600 3745 Sugarcane M.Ton (thousand) 4000 4165 2 Beast Milk Liter (thousand) 2434 2575 Fish M.Ton 103 109 Meat M.Ton (thousand) 576 607 3 Irrigation/river control Additional irrigation facilities (Federal Only) Hectare (thousand) 1508 1537 Construction of embankment in the large and medium river K.M. 1182 1239 Installation and operation of Rader Center Nos. 1 2 Automation of water measurement center Nos. 120 150 Automation of meteorological stations Nos. 154 184 4 Forest Seedling production, procurement and Distribution (annual) Nos. (thousand) 25000 25000 Estimated revenue amount from forest area RS. Billion 4 4.5 Wood Product Q. ft. (hundred thousand) 150 250 Water sources, pond conservation and wetland area management Nos. 250 275 Grassland management Hectare 1800 2000 Construction and management of urban green gardens Nos. 30 55 Gorge/Landslide control and prevention Nos. 220 240 Employment from forest area Thousand 30 35 5 Road Road connection upto district headquarters Nos. 76 77 District with blacktopped road connection Nos. 73 73 Blacktopped road (Including local roads under the road department) K.M. 16724 18224 Graveled road K.M. 8322 7822 Muddy road (Including track construction) K.M. 8498 7998 Routine and recurrent road maintenance K.M. 7187 7200 Periodic road maintenance K.M. 729 750 No. of bridge construction Nos. 2650 2950 6 Local level roads and bridges Blacktopped road K.M. 4362 4512 Graveled road K.M. 13397 13411 Muddy road K.M. 45906 46519 Rural road bridge construction meter 621 721 Rural municipalities/municipality center connected with road Nos. 725 740 Rural municipalities/municipality center connected with Graveled Road Nos. 518 548 Administrative building constructed in Local level Nos. 254 324 Suspension bridge Nos. 9152 9882 7 Energy Hydropower generation capacity MW 2174.4 2947 Transmission line construction (Higher than 66 K.V.) K.M. 4870 5699 Expansion of 33 KV transmission line K.M. 6000 6500 Populatioon receiving access to electricity from the national power system Percentage 91 97 Per capita electricity consumption KW Hrs. 300 350 Electricity leakage (transmission and distribution) Percentage 15 14.5 Power generation from small and micro hydropower projects MW 35 37 Power generation from solar Energy (Solar mini grid, institutional solar system and domestic solar energy) MW 41.6 45.1 8 Alternative Energy Domestic solar power system connection Nos. (thousand) 946.5 956.5 Improved Iron Stove Nos. (thousand) 129.9 164.9 Construction of domestic bio-gas plant Nos. (thousand) 447.3 458.3 Installation of bio-gas plant Institutional, community and business Nos. 409 489 Improved water mill Nos. 11193 11293 9 Communication and Information Technology Density of internet users Percentage 85 92 Number of internet customers Nos. (thousand thousand) 255 276 Number of mobile telephone customers Nos. (thousand thousand) 389 400 Expansion of mobile broadband services Percentage 62 72 26 S.No. Sectoral Programme Sub-sectoral Programme Unit Estimated upto FY 2020/21 At the end of FY 2021/22 4G/LTE users Percentage 24 50 Expansion of fixed broadband services Percentage 23 27.81 Increase national access to radio Percentage 87 96 Expansion of optical fiver K.M. 12400 19170 Access to digital television Percentage 72 92 Access to broadband internet from local level to center Nos. 608 753 4G/LTE users Municipality 675 753 Service expansion of FTTH Nos. of City / cityoriented municipality 130 159 Online government service Nos. of service 22 42 10 Education Visible enrollment rate in pre-primary education Nos. of service 87.6 89.5 Class 1 enrollment with previous experience of child development Percentage 70.2 73 Net enrollment rate a. Basic level (class 1-8) Percentage 94.7 96 b. Secondary level (class 9-12) Percentage 51.2 54 Basic level class complete rate from 1-8 Percentage Retention rate a. Up-to grade 8 Percentage 82.2 84 b. Up-to grade 9-12 Percentage 29.2 30 Gender equality indicator (based on the basic level net enrollment rate) Ratio 0.99 1 Gender equality indicator (based on the secondary level net enrollment rate) Ratio 1.01 1 Literacy rate (above 5 years) Percentage 85 88 Literacy rate (age group 15-24 years) Percentage 89 95 Students receiving day lunch (class 1-5) District 77 77 Free distribution of sanitary pads to the girl student of community schools (class 6-12) Local level 753 753 Community school with internet facility Percentage 41 60 New classroom construction (Implementation of Presidential educational reform program) Nos. 105945 111316 Visible enrollment rate in higher education Percentage 14.1 16.5 Skill oriented training (short term) Nos. (thousand) 509.5 549.463 Technical education training Nos. (thousand) 460.6 543.6 Trainers' training for technical education and vocational training Nos. 8403 11903 Campus with quality assurance and accreditation Nos. 60 95 Skill test Nos. 406845 441845 Expansion of science laboratory at Province level Nos. 3 7 Expansion access to technical education (Expansion of partnership program at not accessible local level) Nos. of local level 635 660 11 Health Delivery service from health institutions Percentage 65 72 Rate of modern contraceptive users Percentage 49 52 Pregnancy test upto fourth time Percentage 56 73 Maternity services from skilled health workers Percentage 61 71 Vitamin A recipient pregnant women Percentage 62 77 Children having complete vaccination Percentage 79 95 Childrens having measles vaccine Percentage 79 95 Child mortality rate (below 5 years) Per thousand 28 28 Infant mortality rate Per thousand 16 16 Patients having free heart treatment Nos. (thousand) 5 5 Free medicine availability Type 70 70 12 Drinking water and sanitation Population benefited from basic drinking water facility Percentage 94 95 Population benefited from higher medium level drinking water facility Percentage 28 34 Population benefited from sanitation facility with processing system in urban area Percentage 3 7 13 Urban Development Urban road upgrade K.M. 150 Population consuming urban facility Percentage 60 65 Construction of safe citizen residence Thousand 100 168 To complete the construction of bus park Nos. 5 Government building construction (Including conference hall) Nos. 3 10 14 Tourism Tourists arrival Nos. 230085 500000 Period of tourists stay Days 12 16 Per tourist per day expense USD 78 78 Additional employment from tourism sector Nos. thousand 139 Tourism contribution in GDP Percentage 1.4 2 27 S.No. Sectoral Programme Sub-sectoral Programme Unit Estimated upto FY 2020/21 At the end of FY 2021/22 Number of all seasons airport Nos. 37 40 International airlines service to Nepal Nos. 28 30 15 Social Security senior citizen (other) Nos. 1288017 1266109 senior citizen (Dalit/Karnali) Nos. 292812 206400 Single women and widow Nos. 741160 619894 Full disability Nos. 46803 54784 Excessive disability Nos. 80941 104277 Trible at the verge of extinction Nos. 457156 23088 Dalit children Nos. 457156 398396 Grant for child protection Nos. 471969 889407 Local level distributes social security allowances through banking system Nos. 398 753 16 Border security B.O.P building construction Nos. 221 341 National Identity Card Collection of details for national identity card Nos. 40 hundred thousand 1 billion Disaster management District emergency operations center District 66 77 17 Industry Employment generation through establishment of micro, cottage, small, medium and large industries Thousand 128 140 Registration of large industry Nos. 26 50 Registration of medium industry Nos. 27 120 Registration of cottage and small industry Nos. thousand 33 40 Upgradation of micro entrepreneurs Nos. thousand 33 37 Employment creation through micro entrepreneurs and other programs Nos. thousand 125 Skill oriented training in collaboration with private sector Nos. thousand 33 37 18 Supply Transportation of food in specified remote districts M.Ton (thousand) 16.5 18 Food stock in national food safety storage M.Ton (thousand) 25 25 Food stock in SAARC food safety bank M.Ton (thousand) 8 8 Transportation of iodized salt in specified remote districts M.Ton (thousand) 96 96 19 Commerce Increase in export Rs. Billion 8 11.5 Export import ratio Ratio 1:1 1:3 0:01 Export to GDP ratio Ratio 2.9 3.3 20 Cooperative Increase in number of cooperatives Nos. 29886 30000 Number of cooperative members Hundred thousand 73 73.50 Share capital of cooperative societies Rs. Billion 94 95 total savings of cooperatives Rs. Billion 475 480 Investment through cooperatives Rs. Billion 426 440 Trained manpower in cooperative sector Nos. (hundered thousand) 11 12 Direct employment through cooperative Nos. (thousand) 88 105 Employment generation through community institutions under Poverty Alleviation Fund Thousand 150 21 Labor and Social Security Child labor inspection in enterprises (per year) Nos. 1600 2000 Vocational and skill-based training Nos. (thousand) 10 65 Enterprise inspection Nos. 1600 12000 Labor audit Nos. 2200 5000 Employment generation (Prime Minister Employment Program) Nos. (thousand) 140 200 Employment generation (collaboration with public, private) Nos. (thousand) 400 350 Number of beneficiaries in Social Security Fund Nos. (thousand) 150 600 Number of enterprises/employers involved in social security plan Nos. (thousand) 15 50 Number of labors affiliated in enterprises under contribution based social security scheme Percentage 50 70 22 Youth Self-employment generation under Youth Self-employment Fund Thousand 12 12 23 Finance Number of employment generation from interest subsidy scheme Thousand 50 90 Employment generation from the investment into Small Farmers Development Microfinance Institution Thousand 40 80 28